TO THE THURSDAY,
OCTOBER 12 23 MEETING OF THE
ANN ARBOR HISTORIC DISTRICT
COMMISSION, THE MEETING IS
BEING HELD IN PERSON AND
ELECTRONICALLY ASSUME MEMBERS
OF THE PUBLIC WHO WOULD LIKE TO
COMMENT ON HEARINGS OR OTHER
MATTERS MAY DO SO IN PERSON OR
VIRTUALLY TO SPEAK DURING ANY
OF THE PUBLIC COMMENT
OPPORTUNITY.
PLEASE CALL TO ZERO SIX THREE
THREE SEVEN NINE SEVEN TWO
THREE OR TOLL FREE 877 EIGHT
FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN
AND THEN ENTER THE MEETING I.D.
NINE SIX FIVE THREE SIX SIX
NINE SEVEN SIX TWO.
THIS INFORMATION IS ALSO
AVAILABLE ON THE PUBLIC AGENDA
AND THE PUBLIC NOTICES SECTION
ON THE CITY WEBSITE AND ON THE
BROADCAST OF THIS MEETING ON
CTM.
CTM CAN BE FOUND ON XFINITY
CHANNEL 16 AT&T CHANNEL NINETY
NINE STREAMING ONLINE ON
YOUTUBE OR AT EIGHT TO GUBJRG
SLASH WATCH CTM.
WE INTEND TO CONDUCT THIS
HYBRID MEETING SIMILARLY TO AN
IN-PERSON MEETING HOWEVER
PLEASE BE PATIENT IF THERE ARE
TECHNICAL ISSUES MISS THATCHER
WILL YOU PLEASE CALL THE ROLL
YES CATHY FORTNER HERE JENNIFER
ROSS JESSICA BUCHANAN HERE DAVE
ROCHLIN HERE THEN CALDERON HERE
YOU HAVE A QUORUM.
THANK YOU MISS THATCHER.
SO WE'RE USING THE AGENDA HERE
AND WE'RE AGENDA ITEM SEE
THAT'S APPROVAL OF THE AGENDA
AND ARE THERE ANY ADDITIONS,
DELETIONS OR CHANGES TO
TONIGHT?
NO.
OK, SEEING NONE WITHOUT
OBJECTION THE AGENDA IS
APPROVED AS PRESENTED.
SO NOW WE'LL MOVE ON TO DENHA.
THAT'S PUBLIC COMMENT.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES ABOUT AN ISSUE
THAT IS NOT LISTED AS A PUBLIC
HEARING ON THIS AGENDA TO
COMMENT ON SUCH OTHER
PRESERVATION MATTERS, PLEASE
CALL IN USING THE INFORMATION
DISPLAYED ON THE MEETING AGENDA
AND THE VIDEO FEED CITY STAFF
WILL SELECT ONE BY ONE USING
THE LAST THREE DIGITS OF YOUR
PHONE NUMBER TO ELECTRONICALLY
RAISE YOUR HAND TO INDICATE
YOUR DESIRE TO SPEAK PLEASE
PRESS STAR NINE ON YOUR PHONE
YOU WILL HEAR AN AUTOMATED
ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE HOST IS
ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
ANYONE ON THE LINE?
NO ONE'S INDICATING IN THE SAME
ROOM IS ANYONE HERE FOR PUBLIC
COMMENT DOES NOT LOOK LIKE IT.
OK, WELL IN THAT CASE WE WILL
CLOSE THE PUBLIC COMMENT
SESSION THERE AND MOVE ON TO
KEY UNFINISHED BUSINESS.
BUT WE DO NOT HAVE ANY
UNFINISHED BUSINESS SO WE'LL GO
RIGHT TO F HEARINGS AND WE'LL
START WITH HEARING EF1 204
NORTH FOURTH AVE. MISS THATCHER
,THANK YOU.
SOMEONE'S COMING IN.
OK, THIS ALLEGATION IS A TOOL
FOR NORTH FOURTH AVENUE.
IT'S IN THE FOURTH AND HISTORIC
DISTRICT.
THIS IS THE FORMER WASHINGTON
BANK OF WASHTENAW.
IT WAS BUILT IN 1834 AS A BANK
AND CONVERTED PRETTY QUICKLY TO
A RESIDENTIAL HOME BY 1847 IT
WAS A HOTEL IN 1888 AND BY THEN
THE NORTH FIFTH AVENUE
STOREFRONTS YOU SEE HERE ON THE
LEFT HAD BEEN ADDED TO WHAT WAS
THE BANK LATER AT THE HOUSE.
HERE'S A SHOT ACROSS FOURTH
AVENUE THROUGH ALL THESE
STOREFRONTS CURRENTLY WE'VE GOT
A LOT OF RETAIL ON THE GROUND
FLOOR AND SOME OFFICE AND
RESIDENTIAL UPSTAIRS EXCUSE ME
.
THIS APPLICATION IS FOR A PATIO
TO GO AT GRADE ON THE CORNER
OF S FIFTH AVENUE AND STREET
AND IT'S RIGHT BEHIND WHERE
THESE CHAIRS ARE ON THE
SIDEWALK WILL ZOOM IN A LITTLE
MORE EXACT.
SO THIS IS A VERY FIRST THAT
WAS A VERY YOU KNOW, CITY
STREET SIDEWALK UP TO THE FRONT
DOOR KIND OF FEELING.
IT'S A LITTLE BIT DIFFERENT ON
FIFTH AVENUE BECAUSE THERE IS
STILL LANDSCAPING WHERE THERE
HAS BEEN LANDSCAPING PROBABLY
SINCE THE 1836 I THREW IN THE
THE JOE TILE HERE.
IT'S IN THE ENTRYWAY HERE INTO
WHAT'S THE TEAHOUSE SPACE
CURRENTLY.
SO IF ANYBODY'S AN IRVING
BERLIN FAN AND YOU REMEMBER THE
SONG I WANT TO GO BACK TO
MICHIGAN JOE'S HEAVEN IS IS
REFERENCED IN THE SONG.
I WANT TO GO BACK TO JOE'S I
WANT TO GO BACK TO KUPETS AND
THIS IS WHERE JOE'S HEAVEN WAS
AND IT STILL SAYS JOE ON THE
SIDEWALK WHICH IS KIND OF COOL
BUT THIS IS THE AREA THAT WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT TO PULL
LANDSCAPING AND REPLACE IT WITH
A PATIO A COUPLE OF DIFFERENT
VIEWS WOULDN'T BE THE ENTIRE
SPACE.
THERE WOULD STILL BE A PLANTING
LEFT ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THIS
MAIN ENTRANCE WALKWAY.
IF YOU GO A LITTLE BIT FURTHER
EAST AND STREET YOU SEE THAT
THERE'S A LITTLE MORE ROOM, A
LITTLE MORE GREEN SPACE ON THE
EAST END OF THE SITE.
SO THE PROPOSAL IS HERE TO ADD
A THIRTEEN FOOT BY TWENTY ONE
FOOT PATIO TO BASICALLY, YOU
KNOW, PAVE OVER THAT CORNER.
IT WOULD LEAVE A PLANTING STRIP
HERE LIKE I MENTIONED ALONGSIDE
THE WALKWAY INTO THE BUILDING
THE PAVERS ARE PROPOSED TO
MATCH AS CLOSELY AS THEY CAN
THE PAVERS THAT ARE IN THE CITY
OF INOVALON EXTENSION IN THE
RIGHT AWAY I'M ASSUMING JUST
FOR COHESIVENESS OF THE
APPEARANCE HAS A LOW CURB GOING
AROUND THESE CORNERS.
IT IS SLIGHTLY RAMPED WHICH IS
APPROPRIATE FOR DRAINAGE.
KEEP THE DRAINAGE AWAY FROM THE
BUILDING AND THE CURB WILL KEEP
WATER ALSO AWAY FROM THE
BUILDING.
THERE'S A SMALL PLANTING
FEATURE HERE WITH A DWARF
JAPANESE MAPLE IS PROPOSED AND
THERE'S THERE'S THERE'S A
THERE'S A PATTERN HERE A DESIGN
IN THE IN THE MIDDLE OF UNILOC
PAVERS.
A COUPLE OF RENDERINGS OF WHAT
THIS MIGHT LOOK LIKE.
IT'S A PRETTY STRAIGHTFORWARD
APPLICATION.
THIS BIG STONE IS A PART OF THE
APPLICATION BOTH A LANDSCAPE
FEATURE AND TO KEEP THAT CORNER
DEFINED.
HERE'S WHAT IT LOOKS LIKE NOW.
WE WERE THERE FOR THE REVIEW
COMMITTEE.
NO LANDSCAPING LOOKS GREAT IN
OCTOBER .
YOU KNOW, IT'S FINE.
IT'S PRETTY BASIC.
LET ME GO THROUGH THE SECRETARY
TO YOUR STANDARDS AND
GUIDELINES.
THE STANDARDS THE BEST APPLY
OUR NUMBER ONE WHICH SAYS THE
PROPERTY WILL BE USED AS IT WAS
HISTORICALLY OR BE GIVEN A NEW
USE THAT REQUIRES MINIMAL
CHANGE TO ITS DISTINCTIVE
MATERIALS, FEATURE SPACES AND
SPATIAL RELATIONSHIPS.
NO.
TWO SAYS THE HISTORIC CHARACTER
OF A PROPERTY SHALL BE RETAINED
AND PRESERVED THE REMOVAL
OF HISTORIC MATERIALS OR
ALTERATION OF FEATURES SPACES
THAT CHARACTERIZE A PROPERTY
SHALL BE AVOIDED.
NO.9 AS NEW ADDITIONS, EXTERIOR
ALTERATIONS OR RELATED NEW
CONSTRUCTION SHALL NOT DESTROY
HISTORIC MATERIALS.
THE CHARACTER IS THE PROPERTY.
THE NEW WORK SHALL BE
DIFFERENTIATED FROM THE OLD
SHALL BE COMPATIBLE WITH A
MASSIVE SIZE SCALE AND
ARCHITECTURAL FEATURES TO
PROTECT THE HISTORIC INTEGRITY
OF THE PROPERTY AND ITS
ENVIRONMENT.
FINALLY, NO SAYS NEW ADDITIONS
AND ADJACENT OR RELATED NEW
CONSTRUCTION WILL BE UNDERTAKEN
IN SUCH A MANNER THAT IF
REMOVED IN THE FUTURE THE
ESSENTIAL FORM AND INTEGRITY
OF THE HISTORIC PROPERTY WILL
BE UNIMPAIRED FROM THE
SECRETARY INTERIOR GUIDELINES.
IT'S NOT RECOMMENDED TO
INTRODUCE NEW CONSTRUCTION
THAT'S VISUALLY INCOMPATIBLE
BUT THAT DESTROYS HISTORIC
RELATIONSHIPS FROM THE
GUIDELINES FOR PATIO'S IS
APPROPRIATE TO INSTALL PATIO
FLUSH WITH GREAT USING STONE
PAVERS ARE CONCRETE CUSTOM
MATERIALS WE CONSIDER ON A CASE
BY CASE BASIS AND FOR ALL NEW
CONSTRUCTION IT'S APPROPRIATE
TO DESIGN NEW FEATURES THAT ARE
COMPATIBLE WITH THE HISTORIC
CHARACTER OF THE SITE, DISTRICT
AND NEIGHBORHOOD.
THIS IS A SUPER STRAIGHTFORWARD
APPLICATION I HAVE TO ADMIT
THAT MY FIRST REACTION TO IT
WAS THIS HAS BEEN LANDSCAPE
AREA SINCE THE 1930S.
THAT'S A LONG TIME BUT IT'S NO
LONGER A RESIDENTIAL HOUSE.
IT'S ON A FAIRLY BUSY
COMMERCIAL STREET CORNER.
IT'S REVERSIBLE.
YOU CAN CERTAINLY PULL UP
PAVERS IF YOU WANT TO.
I DON'T THINK I WOULD RECOMMEND
GOING ANY FURTHER EAST WITH
YOU.
NO, I WOULDN'T WANT ALL OF THE
FRONT YARDS, YOU KNOW, PAVED
OVER HERE.
BUT I DO THINK THAT THIS IS A
REASONABLE REQUEST AND SHOULD
NOT HAVE ANY LASTING HARM OR
EFFECTS ON THE BUILDING AND
STAFF RECOMMENDS APPROVAL.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH, MISS
THATCHER.
SO THE REVIEW COMMITTEE WAS
COMMISSIONED FORNA AND
COMMISSIONER KIYONO IS THAT
CORRECT?
OK, WOULD YOU PLEASE GIVE US
YOUR REPORT
AND RECOMMENDATION?
YEAH, I DON'T HAVE MUCH TO ADD
EXCEPT TO SAY THAT I DO THINK
THAT THAT PLANTING STRIP THAT
THE END DOES A LOT TOWARDS SORT
OF MAINTAINING THE INTEGRITY
OF THAT ENTRANCEWAY THE STORED
BANK INTEREST PART OF THE
BUILDING AND THE PAVING IS ALL
SORT OF THE MORE COMMERCIALLY
DEVELOPED AREA FOR JUST CAN YOU
CLARIFY WHAT YOU'RE SAYING?
CAN YOU SAY THAT AGAIN THAT
THAT PLANTING STRIP THAT'S
SHOWN IN THIS PICTURE HERE
THAT'S GOING TO BE MAINTAINED?
OH, THE ONE ON THE OTHER SIDE
OF THE DOOR.
OK, WELL IT'S GOING TO BE WHICH
PICTURE, RIGHT?
SO THERE'S GOING TO BE PLANTING
THAT PLANTING STRAW THE
PLANTING STRIP THAT'S NEXT TO
THE PATIO.
OK, I GET THANK YOU.
SORRY ABOUT THAT.
I THOUGHT YOU WERE I DIDN'T
KNOW WHAT YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT
ACTUALLY.
YEAH.
OK ZEDEK OK I AGREE WITH STEPH
REPORT AND THE OTHER COMMENT
THE COMMISSIONER FORTNER YEAH.
FIRST I I DIDN'T NOTICE THE THE
PROPOSED PLANTING STRIP AND I
THOUGHT OH THAT'S A LOT
OF HARDSCAPE BUT THE THE
LANDSCAPING THAT THEY THEY'VE
PROVIDED HAVE KIND OF BLENDED
WITH THE REST OF THE AS YOU
WALK FURTHER DOWN AND AND I
THINK HELPS MAKE THAT
TRANSITION SO YEAH NOT MUCH
MUCH MORE TO ADD.
OK THANK YOU BOTH WITH THE
APPLICANT PLEASE ON YOUR
MICROPHONE OR STEP FORWARD IF
YOU'RE HERE LOOKS LIKE NOT HERE
SO TURN ON YOUR VIDEO AS WELL
IF POSSIBLE AND PROVIDE YOUR
NAME AND ADDRESS FOR THE RECORD
YOU SO YOU HAVE UP TO FIVE
MINUTES TO SPEAK BUT REALLY WE
WANT TO KNOW IF YOU HAVE
ANYTHING TO ADD TO THE STAFF
REPORT OR WHAT YOU JUST HEARD
FROM THE REVIEW COMMITTEE.
I DON'T SACHA I DON'T BELIEVE
OUR GOVERNMENT IS IN ATTENDANCE
.
OK, RIGHT.
SO I HAD SOME QUESTIONS MAYBE
OTHER COMMISSIONERS DID AS WELL
BUT WE'LL WE'LL MOVE ON FOR NOW
AND WE WILL GO TO THE PUBLIC
HEARING FOR THIS ITEM.
SO THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES ABOUT THIS
APPLICATION AT 204 NORTH FOURTH
PUBLIC COMMENT MAY BE MADE IN
PERSON OR BY CALLING IN USING
THE INFORMATION DISPLAYED ON
THE MEETING AGENDA AND THE
VIDEO FEED TO ELECTRONICALLY
RAISE YOUR HAND TO INDICATE
YOUR DESIRE TO SPEAK PLEASE
PRESS STAR NINE ON YOUR PHONE
RIGHT NOW AND ANY CALLERS NOW
HIM WE HAVE NO ONE HERE SO I
WILL NOW CLOSE THE PUBLIC
HEARING PORTION OF THIS
APPLICATION AND I WILL ASK IF
ANY COMMISSIONER WOULD LIKE TO
MAKE A MOTION ON THIS
APPLICATION.
MR FORTNER?
I BELIEVE THAT THE COMMISSION
ISSUE A CERTIFICATE
OF APPROPRIATENESS FOR THE
APPLICATION AND TO A FOR OUR
FOURTH AND CONTRIBUTING
PROPERTY IN THE FOURTH AND
HISTORIC DISTRICT TO INSTALL A
THIRTEEN FOOT BY 21 FOOT PAPER
PATIO IN FRONT OF THE BUILDING
AT THE SOUTHWEST CORNER OF THE
SITE ABUTTING THE PUBLIC RIGHT
OF WAY AS PROPOSED THE WORK IS
COMPATIBLE ON EXTERIOR DESIGN
ARRANGE TEXTURE MATERIAL IN
RELATIONSHIP TO THE REST OF THE
BUILDING AND THE SURROUNDING
AREA AND MEETS THE SECRETARY
OF THE INTERIOR STANDARDS FOR
REHABILITATION AND THE
GUIDELINES FOR REHABILITATING
HISTORIC BUILDINGS IN
PARTICULAR STANDARDS ONE TO
NINE AND TEN AND THE GUIDELINES
FOR DISTRICT OR NEIGHBORHOOD
SETTING AS WELL AS THE ANN
HARBOR HISTORIC DISTRICT
GUIDELINES PARTICULARLY AS THEY
PERTAIN TO RESIDENTIAL TAX AND
PATIOS AND CONSTRUCTION AND NEW
CONSTRUCTION IN HISTORIC
RESIDENTIAL SETTINGS.
DO I HAVE A SECOND GRADE THAT
WAS MOVED BY COMMISSIONER
FORTNER AND SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER KIYONO?
SO LET'S HAVE SOME DISCUSSION
ON THE MOTION IF THERE IS ANY.
YES, WELL I HAD A QUESTION FOR
STAFF FIRST WHICH SO THE THE
THE ORIGINAL THE ORIGINAL HOUSE
SHAPE AND THEN IT'S CLEARLY SET
BACK FROM AND WAS IT DID IT
HAVE THE SAME SET BACK FROM
FOURTH AND THEN AN ADDITION WAS
BUILT TO LIKE THE SIDE OF IT TO
GET THE COMMERCIAL STOREFRONT
IS THAT YEAH YEAH.
AND THAT HAPPENED IN THE PERIOD
OF SECOND THAT HAPPENED WELL
THAT HAPPENED BEFORE I THINK I
SAID THE EIGHTEENTH YEAH.
LIKE A LONG LONG TIME AGO BUT
IF YOU LOOK AT THIS PICTURE IN
THE PACKET I DIDN'T PUT IT IN
THE SLIDES.
RIGHT.
YOU CAN KIND OF SEE HOW IT'S IN
THE STAFF REPORT.
YOU CAN KIND OF SEE HOW IT'S
GOT A PRETTY SHALLOW FRONT YARD
LIKE IT DOES NOW, RIGHT?
YEAH.
AND YOU CAN JUST SEE THAT THE
FENCE AND THE LAWN TURNS THE
CORNER FOR THAT.
YEAH.
AND REALLY THAT ADDITION ON
NORTH AVENUE IS NOT VERY DEEP.
LET ME SHOW YOU A PICTURE AGAIN
.
SO IT WAS IT WAS USED TO TO
FILL IN THAT SHALLOW SPACE AND
SEE SO IT'S ONLY IT'S RIGHT
IT'S ONLY REALLY MAYBE TEN FEET
DEEP.
YEAH.
BECAUSE THE HOUSE IS SO USED TO
HAVE A CORNER RIGHT AROUND
HERE.
YEAH.
IT'S LIKE THE DEPTH OF THE SET
BACK MORE OR LESS WHERE THEY
BUILT IT RIGHT.
IT IS SO JUST FILLED UP WHAT
USED TO BE A LITTLE ON WITH THE
PICKET RIGHT.
YEAH OK
DO YOU KNOW WHAT THE
USE OF THE PATIO IS INTENDED TO
BE.
IT'S FOR A TEA HOUSE.
YEAH LIKE SO THEY'RE GOING TO
HAVE LITTLE CHAIRS AND YEAH.
COULD SEE THAT THIS THIS LITTLE
CORNER HERE IS PRIVATE PROPERTY
IT'S IT'S PART OF THIS LOT AND
IT HAPPENS TO ALREADY BE PAID
SO THAT'S WHERE THEY HAVE THEIR
TABLE CHAIRS RIGHT NOW IT MUST
BE POPULAR BECAUSE THEY JUST
LIKE TO EXPAND THAT OK I DIDN'T
KNOW WHAT MOBILE BARRICADE WAS
THEIR PLANS.
DO YOU KNOW WHAT THAT IS?
OH THAT'S JUST YOU KNOW WHEN
YOU GO TO OUTDOOR SEATING AND
YOU SEE PLANTER BOXES OR ROPES
OR CHAINS OR FENCES, YOU'RE
REQUIRED TO HAVE SOMETHING
PORTABLE TO SEPARATE YOUR
PATRONS FROM THE SIDEWALK.
OK, SO THANK YOU.
I DON'T KNOW WHAT IT'LL LOOK
LIKE BUT WE DON'T WORRY ABOUT
THAT BECAUSE IT'S VERY
TRANSIENT AND CHANGES AT LEAST
I WON'T WORRY ABOUT IT.
YEAH I JUST DIDN'T WANT TO KNOW
WHAT IT WAS.
YEAH THAT'S GOOD TO KNOW.
THANK YOU.
NOW I'LL KNOW WHAT TO CALL THAT
WHEN I WALK HOME DOWN MAIN
STREET AND THEN MY OTHER
COMMENT WAS I WAS A LITTLE
CONCERNED ABOUT THE PLANTING
THE TREE SO CLOSE TO THE
STRUCTURE IT'S IT WAS A LITTLE
SURPRISING.
IT'S A THREE FOOT THEY SAY IT'S
LIKE A THREE FOOT TREE WHICH
MEANS IT'S PLANTED EIGHTEEN
INCHES FROM THE BUILDING.
I MEAN IT'S THIS IS PRESENTED
BY A LANDSCAPING COMPANY SO I I
TRUST THEM.
I JUST WANTED LIKE ASSURANCES
THAT IT WASN'T GOING TO BE
NEGATIVELY AFFECTING THE
HISTORIC STRUCTURE.
BUT LANDSCAPING IS OBVIOUSLY
REMOVABLE IF THERE'S AN ISSUE
I'M SURE BUT I DON'T KNOW IF
THERE'S ANYTHING IN THE
STANDARDS THAT WOULD RELATE TO
THAT OR WE JUST THERE'S
LANDSCAPING NOTHING SPECIFIC.
I DON'T DO THINGS THAT HARM
YOUR BUILDING RIGHT.
I DON'T THINK THERE'S ANYTHING
SPECIFIC TO PLANTING TREES FAR
ENOUGH AWAY FROM THE BUILDING.
YEAH, I'M NOT SUPER CONCERNED
ABOUT IT SINCE IT'S IT'S LIKE A
TINY TREE.
YEAH VERY TINY.
THEY ARE PUTTING A RUBBER
MEMBRANE AS WATERPROOFING BUILT
ALONG THE WALL SO BETWEEN THE
WALL AND THE DIRT AND THE TREE
.
RIGHT.
I DON'T KNOW IF THAT'S JUST A
PREVENTIVE MEASURE.
YEAH I DON'T THINK I'M WORRIED
ABOUT THE ROOTS SO MUCH MORE
JUST LIKE THE THE TREE IN THE
TREES BANGING UP AGAINST THE
HOUSE THE OLD HOUSE ACTUALLY
THAT'S A GOOD QUESTION AND I
GUESS THE STAFF LIKE SO DO YOU
THINK THAT THE THE LANDSCAPE
ARCHITECT THIS KIND ADDED THAT
TREE IS KIND OF A GESTURE
BECAUSE THEY THOUGHT IT WOULD
MAKE US HAPPY EARLY?
I CAN I MEAN I DON'T HAVE THAT
SENSE.
I THINK IT'S A DESIGN FEATURE,
YOU KNOW, TO MAKE THE PATIO
MORE A LITTLE BIT A TREE THOUGH
IT'LL BE BEAUTIFUL.
YOU KNOW, IT'S ALMOST LIKE YEAH
,FOR SURE THERE.
YEAH.
I DON'T THINK IT WAS ENOUGH
JUST TO SWAY MY VOTE BUT IT WAS
JUST SOMETHING I WAS CURIOUS
ABOUT AND I GUESS YOU KNOW, WE
CAN KEEP AN EYE ON IT AND BY WE
I MEAN EVERYONE IN ANN ARBOR OK
ANY OTHER COMMENTS OR SHOULD WE
TAKE IT TO VOTE HERE?
OK, I'M SEEING NO COMMENTS.
LET'S VOTE ALL THOSE IN FAVOR
PLEASE SAY YES.
YES, YES ALL THOSE OPPOSED
PLEASE SAY NO.
SO THE MOTION CARRIES THE
APPLICATION HAS BEEN APPROVED.
OK, SO NOW WHEN STAFF IS READY
WE WILL MOVE ON TO HEARING TWO
WHICH IS TWO FIFTEEN SOUTH MAIN
STREET DISPATCHER THANK YOU ALL
STAFF REPORT PLEASE SO TO
FIFTEEN SOUTH MAIN YOU'VE SEEN
A COUPLE OF TIMES RECENTLY I'M
NOT GOING TO GO TO THE COMPLETE
HISTORY AND BACKGROUND BECAUSE
YOU'VE ALL HEARD IT I BELIEVE
BUT THESE ARE ONE IT'S ONE
BUILDING SCHEDULED TO START
THIS MORNING ONE BUILDING TO
BAIS WIDE AND SOUTH MAIN STREET
TO FIFTEEN AND TO SEVENTEEN
SOUTH MAIN STREET IN JULY THE
HGC DENIED A PORTION OF THE
APPLICATION FOR A TWO STOREY
ROOFTOP ADDITION AND WHILE
APPROVING WORK TO REPLACE THE
TWO STOREFRONTS THAT YOU SEE
HERE AND TO REPLACE THE WINDOWS
ON THE SECOND AND THIRD FLOORS
OF THE FRONT ELEVATION SO
NOW
THEY'RE COMING BACK.
THEY HAVE A SIGNIFICANTLY
DIFFERENT PROPOSAL FOR
ADDITIONAL STORIES TO THE
BUILDING BOTH ON THE BACK AND
ON THE THREE STOREY BLOCK THAT
YOU SEE HERE.
SO LET ME RUN THROUGH THESE
OTHER REVIEW COMMITTEE WITHOUT
THE APPLICANT MEET US ON THE
SITE.
WE WE WE HAD A PRETTY
PRODUCTIVE MORE PRODUCTIVE THAN
USUAL REVIEW COMMITTEE MEETING
GOING OVER STUFF AND AS A
RESULT THERE WERE SOME CHANGES
MADE TO THE DRAWINGS THAT WERE
IN THE PACKAGE YOU GOT ON
FRIDAY.
IF YOU'RE OPENING THEM
DIGITALLY, THE NEW ONES ARE IN
THE PACKET NOW.
SO YOU'RE SEEING THE MOST
RECENT DRAWINGS BUT THE
DISCUSSION MOSTLY ONE BIG TOPIC
WAS WAS PRESERVING THIS WALL
AND NOT TAKING IT DOWN AND JUST
USING IT AND SO TAKE NOTE
OF THAT AND WE'LL GET TO THAT
IN A SECOND.
THESE ARE SOME SHOTS OF THE THE
BACK THE REAR FACADE.
THAT'S MOSTLY WHAT WE TALKED
ABOUT AT THE REVIEW COMMITTEE
MEETING ON MONDAY.
BUT SOME ON THE FRONT ALSO SO
SOME THINGS I WOULD LIKE TO
POINT TO THIS PHOTO BEFORE WE
GET TO THE DRAWINGS IS A
ROOFTOP EDITION IS PROPOSED TO
GO ON A TWO STORIES ON TOP
OF THE HISTORIC THREE STOREY
PORTION OF THE BUILDING AND
THEN THREE STORIES ON THE
HISTORIC TWO STOREY PORTION
OF THE BUILDING.
THE TRICKY PART IS THAT THIS
THREE WINDOW BAY WOULD GET
NARROWER AND IT WOULD BECOME A
TWO WINDOW BAY WITH A DOOR AND
A WINDOW AS WELL AS THIS WALL
BEING PULLED OUT TOWARD THE
ALLEY.
WE'LL GET TO THE DRAWINGS.
I THINK IT'S ABOUT TEN FEET BUT
WE CAN WE CAN CHECK THAT LATER.
SIMILARLY THIS WALL WOULD BE
PULLED TO THE NORTH AND THAT'S
WHERE THIS WALL OF WINDOWS IS
GOING.
IT WOULD BE SO THAT THE TWO
STOREY PORTION HERE WOULD BE
EXTRUDED OUT AND THEN A THREE
STOREY ADDITION PLACED ON TOP
OF THAT.
SO THIS WALL COMES BACK A
LITTLE THIS WALL COMES TO THE
NORTH A LITTLE BIT NOW TO SHOW
YOU THAT ON DRAWINGS THERE ARE
FLOOR PLANS PROVIDED.
I WILL GO INTO THOSE IF ANYONE
WANTS TO SEE THEM.
BUT YOU CAN SEE HERE ON THE
FIRST FLOOR PLAN THERE ARE TWO
WINDOWS ARE A WINDOW AND A DOOR
HERE INSTEAD OF THE THREE
WINDOW BAY.
SO THE THIRD WINDOW HAS NOW
BEEN REMOVED AND THIS SHOULD
PUT THEM BACK SIMILARLY THIS IS
THE WHO I BELIEVE THIS IS
MARKED AS THE FORMER CORNER
OF THE BUILDING.
SO NOW THE REAR CORNER HAS BEEN
MOVED TO THE EAST TOWARD THE
ALLEY.
I INCLUDED THE FOURTH AND THE
FIFTH FLOOR PLANS HERE BECAUSE
NOW YOU REMEMBER THE LAST
APPLICATION HAD A STEPPED BACK
FOURTH FLOOR AND STEP BACK
FIFTH FLOOR OR MAYBE THEY WERE
BOTH THE SAME DISTANCE.
I THINK THEY ARE OFFSET NOW.
THEY'RE BOTH SET BACK 19 FEET.
SO THIS IS THE FOURTH FLOOR.
THIS IS THE FIFTH STACK RIGHT
ON TOP OF EACH OTHER.
NINETEEN FEEDBACK FROM THE
PARAPET THE ROOF PLAN.
I INCLUDED THIS TO SHOW THAT
THIS IS A LARGE PARAPET SCREEN
AND IT'S SLOPED BACK TO TRY TO
REDUCE A VIEW FROM THE STREET
LEVEL OF THE PARAPET AND WHAT'S
GOING ON UP HERE.
ALL RIGHT.
SO STOREFRONT WINDOWS HAVE
ALREADY BEEN APPROVED SO WE
DON'T NEED TO TALK ABOUT THOSE
EXCUSE ME HERE WE HAVE SO
ELEVATION DRAWING IS ALWAYS THE
WORST LOOKING DRAWING IN IN THE
BUNCH FOURTH FLOOR SITS ON TOP
AND YOU CAN SEE THAT THE
PARAPET SHIELDS PART OF IT
FIFTH FLOOR SITS ON TOP OF THAT
AND THIS IS THAT SLANTED
PARAPET SCREEN TO TRY TO MAKE
IT LOOK LOWER FROM THE GROUND.
THIS IS THE REAR OF THE
BUILDING.
LOOK WITHIN THE DASHED LINES
HERE.
THIS IS THAT TWO STOREY WALL
THAT'S RIGHT ON THE ALLEY AND
THIS IS THE TWO WINDOWS THAT
USED TO BE A THREE WINDOW BAY
THAT'S THAT'S INSET A LITTLE
BIT FURTHER UP TOP WE HAVE A
THREE TWO STOREY ADDITION.
THIS IS THE CMU THAT'S
TEXTURED.
HELP ME OUT HERE WITH THIS.
THANK YOU FOR THIS.
WE HAD A DISCUSSION AT THE
REVIEW COMMITTEE ABOUT WHEN IT
WAS APPROPRIATE TO USE
RECLAIMED HISTORIC BRICK AND
WHEN IT WAS APPROPRIATE TO USE
NEW BRICK BECAUSE THEY'RE
PROPOSING TO USE ON THE LOWER
LEVELS BRICK AND ON THE UPPER
NEW LEVELS THE SPLIT FIRST
BLOCK.
HOWEVER, SINCE THIS WALL WITH
THE TWO WINDOWS IS BEING PULLED
FORWARD, IT'S NO LONGER IN THE
LOCATION OF THE HISTORIC WALL.
SO WE DISCUSSED THAT THIS
SHOULD COULD CERTAINLY I THINK
THE BRICK TO BE COMPATIBLE BUT
SHOULD NOT BE THE RECLAIMED
BRICK BECAUSE THAT WOULD BE
CONFUSING TO SEE OLD HISTORIC
BRICK IN A PLACE WHERE THERE'S
NOT CURRENTLY A HISTORIC WALL.
SIMILARLY, THIS IS NOT DRAWN
WITH THE WINDOWS WHERE THEY
CURRENTLY ARE OR THE DOOR
BECAUSE RIGHT NOW THERE'S A
DOORWAY AND THEY WERE TALKING
ABOUT PULLING THIS WALL FARTHER
TO THE NORTH RIGHT NOW IT ENDS
ABOUT HERE BECAUSE THAT'S WHERE
THAT THAT THIRD WINDOW IS.
YEAH.
SO THERE'S THERE'S A LITTLE
PROBLEM STILL HERE WITH THIS
DRAWING.
IT DOES SHOW THAT WE'VE GOT TWO
STOREY UP TO THREE STOREY.
ALL RIGHT.
WE'VE GOT A COUPLE OF SIDE
ALTERATIONS.
THIS THIS IS THIS IS A NEW WALL
AROUND THE CORNER FROM THE
ALLEY AND SHOWS NEW OPENINGS
BALCONY DOOR AND UP ABOVE THE
NEWARK.
THIS IS THE ORIGINAL CORNER
OF THE BUILDING AND I BELIEVE
THAT THIS IS THE LINE OF WHERE
THIS TO BE A PORTION OF NEW
WALL TO POP OUT THAT SECTION
OF THE BACK OF THE BUILDING.
OK, SO
THESE ARE SOME
PERSPECTIVES SHOWING YOU AND
THERE'S THERE'S THERE'S A LOT
OF PERSPECTIVE DRAWINGS WHICH
IS APPRECIATED BECAUSE IT'S
MUCH EASIER TO TO FIGURE OUT
WHAT'S GOING ON HERE AND WHAT'S
PROPOSED.
SO IF YOU WERE STANDING ON MAIN
STREET LIKE PROBABLY RIGHT IN
THE MIDDLE OF MAIN STREET, YOU
WOULD SEE THIS FIFTH FLOOR SET
BACK 19 FEET FROM THE PARAPET
AND IF YOU WERE IN THE ALLEY
YOU WOULD SEE THESE ADDITIONAL
STORIES OF QUMU AND THEN THE
REWORKED FIRST TWO AND THIRD
FLOOR.
UM, SORRY THIS GOT MORAL ON ME.
I'M NOT SURE WHY BUT THIS IS
THE VIEW FROM THE STREET IN
FRONT OF THE RAVENS CLUB AND IT
WOULD NOT BE VISIBLE AT ALL
FROM THERE FAR ENOUGH BACK AND
SHIELDED FROM THESE BUILDINGS.
RAVENS CLUB IS THREE DOORS DOWN
FROM THIS BUILDING ARE FOUR
DOORS DOWN.
HERE IS A SECTION THIS IS THE
STOREFRONT MAIN STREET IS OVER
HERE ON THE RIGHT THIS IS THE
SECOND FLOOR AND THE THIRD
FLOOR.
HERE'S THAT NINETEEN FOOT SET
BACK TO THE FOURTH AND FIFTH
STORIES AND THE SLANTED PARAPET
UP HERE ON THE TOP.
ALL RIGHT.
SO HERE'S ANOTHER PERSPECTIVE
IF YOU WERE A PERSON ON THE
STREET STANDING IN FRONT OF THE
BUILDING YOU COULDN'T SEE THIS
WORK AT ALL.
IF YOU'RE STANDING DIRECTLY
ACROSS THE STREET SAY AT THE
EDGE OF THE PAVEMENT YOU COULD
MAYBE SEE A LITTLE BIT OF IT
AND IF YOU WERE REALLY SCREWED
IT UP TO THE BACK OF THE
BUILDING YOU COULD SEE THE
FOURTH FLOOR I'M SORRY THE
FIFTH FLOOR UP ON TOP HERE.
THESE ARE ADDITIONAL VIEWS FROM
THE STREET.
THIS IS BACKED UP ACROSS THE
STREET ON THE SIDEWALK.
SO THAT IS WHAT YOU WOULD SEE
OF THE FIFTH FLOOR IF YOU WERE
ON THIS BUILDING SIDE OF THE
STREET.
YOU WOULDN'T SEE ANYTHING.
NOW WE'RE STANDING ON THE
STARBUCKS CORNER AND THIS FIFTH
FLOOR WOULD BE VISIBLE UP TOP
HERE IS THE PARAPET SCREENING
VISIBLE IN THAT IMAGE DOESN'T
LOOK LIKE IT.
IT'S THERE YOU JUST CAN'T SEE
IT.
OK AND LIKE WHAT IT'S SCREENING
IS NOT VISIBLE EITHER.
WHY DON'T WE WAIT UNTIL THE
APPLICANTS OK, I WILL ASK A
QUESTION.
THANK YOU.
UM OK OK HERE'S A BETTER ONE
OF THE REASONS I'M SORRY THIS
IS THE BLOWN UP VERSION WHERE
YOU CAN'T SEE IT FROM THERE
RIGHT NOW WE'RE IN THE BACK
ALLEY THIS IS THAT EXISTING TWO
STOREY BACK WALL AND THE NEW
WALL AND THE NEW WORK UP TOP
AND THIS IS WHAT IT WOULD LOOK
LIKE FROM THE BACK.
AGAIN, THIS ISN'T DRAWN WITH
THE WINDOWS ACCURATE AND IT
DOESN'T MAKE ANY DELINEATION
BETWEEN THE NEW AND THE OLD
EVEN THOUGH THIS WALL HAS BEEN
EXTRUDED OUT A LITTLE BIT.
SO JUST KEEP THAT IN MIND FOR
NOW.
THIS IS FROM REGENTS' FIELD.
I THINK THE REASON IS FIELD IS
ACTUALLY THE SECOND STORE FRONT
DOWN HERE SO IT'S ACTUALLY SORT
OF IN THE MIDDLE OF THE
INTERSECTION A LITTLE BIT PAST
REGENTS' FIELD.
SO AGAIN I WATCHED THE YEAH
YEAH THAT'S WHERE YOU COULD SEE
FROM THERE I SEE THE MY
PREVIOUS QUESTION IN THIS IMAGE
THANK YOU.
HEAR THAT THERE.
YEAH.
OK
AND THE REVIEW COMMITTEE WAS
DISCUSSING A BUILDING ON THE
NEXT BLOCK THAT IS A SIMILAR
HEIGHT AND IT'S NEW
CONSTRUCTION.
IT'S NOT AN ADDITION TO A
HISTORIC BUILDING SO IT'S
TREATED DIFFERENTLY.
BUT JUST AS AN EXAMPLE OF WHAT
THE MACING LOOKS LIKE FOR THIS
BUILDING WITH THIS TWO 203 I'M
NOT SURE IF THIS IS FIVE OR SIX
STOREYS BUT IT IS NOT LESS THAN
FIVE FOR SURE AND IT'S
SIMILARLY PLACED, YOU KNOW, MID
BLOCK WITH THREE STOREY
BUILDINGS AROUND IT.
SO THAT'S JUST AS A REFERENCE
POINT.
ALL RIGHT.
GOING THROUGH THE STANDARD I
HAD NO ONE A THE PROPERTY WILL
BE USED AS IT WAS HISTORICALLY
OR GIVEN A NEW USE THAT
REQUIRES MINIMAL CHANGE TO ITS
DISTINCTIVE MATERIALS FEATURES
SPACES IN SPATIAL
RELATIONSHIPS.
I HAVE READ NUMBER TWO TO YOU
NUMBER FIVE SAYS DISTINCTIVE
MATERIALS, FEATURES, FINISHES
AND CONSTRUCTION TECHNIQUES ARE
EXAMPLES OF CRAFTSMANSHIP THAT
CHARACTERIZE A PROPERTY WILL BE
PRESERVED.
NUMBER SIX SAYS DETERIORATED
HISTORIC FEATURES WILL BE
REPAIRED RATHER THAN REPLACED
OR THE SEVERITY
OF DETERIORATION OCCURS.
REPLACEMENT OF A DISTINCTIVE
FEATURE THE NEW WILL MATCH THE
OLD AND DESIGN COLOR TEXTURE
AND WHERE POSSIBLE MATERIALS
REPLACEMENT OF MISSING FEATURES
WILL BE SUBSTANTIATED BY
DOCUMENTARY AND PHYSICAL
EVIDENCE.
I HAVE ALREADY READ TWO
STANDARD NINE AND STANDARD TEN
FROM THE SECRETARY
OF INTERIOR'S GUIDELINES
ALTERATIONS THE ADDITIONS FOR
THE NEW USE THREE RECOMMENDED
TO DESIGN ADDITIONS TO ROOFS
SUCH AS RESIDENTIAL OFFICE OR
STORAGE SPACES, ELEVATOR
HOUSING DECKS AND TERRACES,
OUTDOOR SKYLIGHTS WHEN REQUIRED
BY THE NEW USE SO THAT THEY ARE
INCONSPICUOUS FROM THE PUBLIC
RIGHT OF WAY.
I DO NOT DAMAGE OR OBSCURE
CHARACTER DEFINING FEATURES.
IT'S ALSO RECOMMENDED TO
CONSIDER THE ATTACHED EXTERIOR
DESIGN IN TERMS OF THE NEW USE
AND THE APPEARANCE OF OTHER
BUILDINGS IN THE HISTORIC
DISTRICT OR NEIGHBORHOOD.
DESIGN FOR THE NEW WORK MAY BE
CONTEMPORARY OR REFERENCE
DESIGN.
NOTICE IN THE HISTORIC BUILDING
SHOULD ALWAYS BE CLEARLY
DIFFERENTIATED FROM THE
HISTORIC BUILDING AND BE
COMPATIBLE IN TERMS OF MASS
MATERIALS RELATIONSHIP
OF SOLIDS TO VOIDS AND COLOR.
IT'S ALSO RECOMMENDED TO DESIGN
ADDITIONAL STORIES WHEN
REQUIRED FOR A NEW USE ARE SET
BACK FROM THE WALLPAPER AND ARE
AS INCONSPICUOUS AS POSSIBLE.
VIEWED FROM THE STREET NOT
RECOMMENDED THE DESIGN OF NEW
ADDITIONS THAT ITS SIZE AND
SCALE IN RELATIONSHIP TO START
BUILDING ARE OUT OF PROPORTION,
THUS DIMINISHING THE HISTORIC
CHARACTER.
IT'S ALSO NOT RECOMMENDED TO
DUPLICATE THE EXACT FORM
MATERIAL STYLE AND DETAILING SO
THAT THE NEWARK APPEARS TO BE
PART OF THE HISTORIC BUILDING
FROM THE GUIDELINES FOR
BUILDING SITE.
IT'S NOT RECOMMENDED TO
INTRODUCE NEW CONSTRUCTION ONTO
THE BUILDING SITE WHICH IS
VISUALLY INCOMPATIBLE DECOR
WHICH DESTROYS HISTORIC
RELATIONSHIPS ON THE SITE AND
THE GUIDELINES FOR MASONRY.
IT IS NOT RECOMMENDED TO REMOVE
A RADICALLY CHANGED MASONRY
FEATURES WHICH ARE IMPORTANT IN
DEFINING THE OVERALL HISTORIC
CHARACTER OF THE BUILDING SO
THAT AS A RESULT THE CHARACTER
IS DIMINISHED.
IT'S ALSO NOT RECOMMENDED TO
REPLACE OR REBUILD A MAJOR
PORTION OF EXTERIOR MASONRY
WALLS THAT COULD BE REPAIRED SO
THAT AS A RESULT THE BUILDING
IS NO LONGER HISTORIC AND IS
ESSENTIALLY NEW CONSTRUCTION
FROM THE INTERIOR HISTORIC
DISTRICT DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR
ADDITIONS TO COMMERCIAL
STRUCTURES.
IT'S APPROPRIATE TO PLACE
ADDITIONS SUCH AS BALCONIES OR
NON CHARACTER DEFINING NON
CHARACTER DEFINING ELEVATIONS
LIMITING THE NUMBER OF SIZE AND
SCALE IN RELATION TO HISTORIC
PROPERTY WHEN REQUIRED DESIGN
ADDITIONAL STORIES THAT ARE SET
BACK FROM THE FRONT SIDE WHILE
PLANES AND ARE AS INCONSPICUOUS
AS POSSIBLE WHEN VIEWED FROM
THE STREET FROM THE GUIDELINES
FOR NEW CONSTRUCTION, IT'S
APPROPRIATE JUST AS THAT
BUILDING MACING SHOULD FIT WITH
EXISTING HISTORIC PATTERNS AND
BUILDINGS SHOULD NOT BE IMMENSE
IN SCALE.
I GREATLY CONTRAST WITH
EXISTING SCALE ON THE BLOCK OR
IN THE SURROUNDING HISTORIC
DISTRICT.
OK SO THE STAFF DOES APPRECIATE
THAT THE CHANGES THAT WERE MADE
ON THE DRAWINGS THAT WE WERE
LOOKING AT AT THE REVIEW
COMMITTEE BECAUSE THEY WEREN'T
ACCURATELY REFLECTING WHAT THE
APPLICANTS WANTED THEM TO.
I THINK THERE'S A LITTLE MORE
WORK TO BE DONE ON THIS.
I MADE A QUICK LIST AND I CAN
PASS THIS LONG FROM THE THE
DRAWING STILL NEED SOME CHANGES
TO THE TWO STOREY ALI
ELEVATION.
IT NEEDS TO SHOW THE HISTORIC
OPENINGS CORRECTLY.
IT NEEDS TO NOTE THE ENFIELD
DOOR MATERIAL AND THE INSET
DEPTH.
THERE'S A DOOR THAT THEY'RE
PROPOSING FACES THE ALLEY TO
BLOCK IN BECAUSE THERE'S
FLOODING IN THAT ALLEY AND
WATER IT'S IN THERE.
SO THEY WOULD LIKE TO BREAK IT
IN WITH INSET BRICKS.
WE TALKED ABOUT THAT AT THE
REVIEW COMMITTEE.
THEY NEED TO KNOW WHICH WINDOWS
ARE RESTORED AND WHICH ARE NEW
WINDOWS FOR EXAMPLE.
THERE'S SOME GLASS BLOCK BACK
THERE AND WHAT THEY'RE GOING TO
FILL THOSE OPENINGS WITH OR IF
THEY'RE GOING TO ALTER THE
OPENINGS BACK TO SOMETHING THAT
WAS THERE PREVIOUSLY, THEY NEED
TO SHOW THAT EXTENSION TO THE
NORTH CLEARLY AND DIFFERENTIATE
IT FROM THE HISTORIC WALL AND
THEY NEED TO SHOW THE TWO
STOREY WELL AS SHOW TWO STOREY
WHILE IS RETAINED ON ALL
DRAWINGS.
OH SO AT THE BEGINNING OF THE
PACKET THERE ARE SEVERAL
DRAWINGS THAT SHOW THE FRONT
WALL AND THE TWO SIDE WALLS AS
AS REMAINING BUT NOT GOING
AROUND THE CORNER TO THE BACK
TO THE TWO STOREY PART SO THAT
THAT ALI BIT IS ACCURATELY
REPRESENTED ON THERE IS THAT
YOU CAN ASK A QUESTION WITH
THIS LIST.
YES YES.
YOU'RE IN BETWEEN.
IS THIS A LIST OF ENCAMP
APPLICATION ITEMS OR IS THIS A
LIST THIS IS WHAT YOU NEED TO
DO FOR ME TO RECOMMEND APPROVAL
ITEMS?
NO, IT'S INCOMPLETE AND
COMPLETE APPLICATION THING.
I MEAN IT'S IT'S IT'S IT'S
ELEVENTH HOUR CHANGES TO AN
APPLICATION.
I JUST WASN'T SURE WHAT YEAH.
YEAH.
WHAT YOU WERE GOING SO THAT'S
CLEAR AND NO IT'S IT'S MUCH
CLOSER TO COMPLETE THAN IT WAS
I THOUGHT I THINK THAT SOME
OF THE DETAILS JUST NEED TO BE
CLEANED UP SO OK YEAH PLEASE
CONTINUE.
OK LET'S SEE NEW FLOORS SO THAT
MEANS THAT THE REAR THIRD AND
THE FOURTH OR FIFTH FLOORS WE
DO NEED WINDOW AND DOOR
INFORMATION AND SHEETS AND A
PHOTO SHOWING THE PROPOSED CMU
SAMPLE REFLECTS THE COLOR AND
TEXTURE WOULD BE VERY HELPFUL
ON THE DRAWINGS.
THE HISTORIC BRICK VERSUS THE
NEW BRICK WALLS NEED TO BE
DIFFERENTIATED LIKE YOU KNOW,
WE'RE KEEPING THE TWO STOREY
THAT FACES THE ALLEY.
BUT THESE ARE THESE ARE GOING
TO BE WHAT RED BRICK, BROWN
BRICK YELLOW TO DIFFERENTIATE
THEM FROM THE HISTORIC STUFF
AND THEN JUST MAKING SURE THAT
ALL THE DRUGS ARE CONSISTENT
BECAUSE I THINK THAT SOME
OF THE EARLIER ONES DIDN'T GET
UPDATED WITH THIS NEW
INFORMATION.
SO THAT'S MOSTAFA THE I I DO
THINK IT'S WORTHY OF DISCUSSION
BY THE COMMISSION EVEN THOUGH
THERE ARE THESE OMISSIONS IF
YOU ARE INCLINED TO APPROVE
SUCH AN APPLICATION I THINK
THAT YOU WOULD DO WELL TO
POSTPONE THIS TO NEXT MONTH AND
TO MAKE THESE CHANGES AT A
MINIMUM.
OK, AND YOU GUYS MAY HAVE OTHER
QUESTIONS AND THINGS SO LET ME
MAKE SURE THAT I DIDN'T MISS
SOMETHING HERE ALL THE ALL THE
PREVIOUS STANDARDS AND
GUIDELINES AND DOCUMENTS STILL
ARE APPLICABLE HERE LIKE
PREPARATION BRIEF 14 THAT'S
THAT'S NOTED IN THE STAFF
REPORT
.
OK, SO I DO THINK THAT THIS
APPLICATION IS SIGNIFICANTLY
CLOSER TO SOMETHING THAT I
COULD RECOMMEND APPROVAL ON
THEN THE LAST APPLICATION THAT
WAS DENIED.
I DO THINK THAT KEEPING THAT
TWO STOREY WELL ON THE BACK IS
VERY IMPORTANT AND VERY YOU
KNOW, STRENGTHENS THE
APPLICATION AND BUT WE REALLY
NEED TO SEE ALL OF THAT, YOU
KNOW, LAID OUT CORRECTLY
ACCURATELY IN DRAWINGS.
SO THAT'S IT FROM STAFF.
THANK YOU.
MISS THATCHER.
VERY THOROUGH STAFF REPORT AND
IT'S APPRECIATED AND ESPECIALLY
I THINK CALLING OUT THOSE
OMISSIONS IS APPRECIATED
BECAUSE THERE IS A LOT IN THAT
LOCATION, A LOT OF INFORMATION
AND SO POINTING OUT WHAT WHAT
ISN'T THERE AND WHAT NEEDS TO
BE THERE IS IS HELPFUL FOR US
TO HEAR.
SO THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR THAT
.
WE'LL MOVE ON TO THE REVIEW
COMMITTEE.
WE'VE GOT COMMISSIONERS FORTNER
QUIJANO AND WE'D LIKE TO HEAR
YOUR REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
PLEASE.
THANK YOU.
WELL ACTUALLY MIXED IN WITH
STAFF SUPPORT WITH A LOT
OF DISCUSSION OF WHAT WE TALKED
ABOUT ON THE SITE.
IT'S THE FIRST THE CONCERNS ON
THE NORTH SIDE.
SO THE TWO STORY, ALI ELEVATION
THAT COMES OUT FURTHER THERE IS
A LOT OF JUST DISCUSSION ON
CLARIFYING WHAT'S ACTUALLY
BEING PROPOSED THERE.
YEAH, THOSE ON THE LEFT HAND
SIDE IS TRYING AND FOR ME THE
IT'S IT WASN'T UNTIL THE END
OF THIS VISIT THAT I REALLY
UNDERSTOOD WHAT WAS GOING ON IN
TERMS OF THE NEW VOLUME THAT
WERE BEING PROPOSED WITH A LOT
OF SHIFTING OF THE WALLS.
AND I THINK TO STAFF'S POINT A
MORE COMPLETE APPLICATION
NOTING ALL OF THESE
DIFFERENTIATIONS OF MATERIAL
AND WHERE THOSE LINES THIS IS
ALL EXISTING AND THEN THIS
PORTION AS NEW WOULD REALLY
HELP THE READING BECAUSE WAS WE
WERE WALKING AROUND THAT THAT
CORNER QUITE A BIT.
OH, I'LL LET COMMISSIONER
FORTNER DISCUSS.
BUT WE ALSO TALKED ABOUT YOU
KNOW, ON THE MAIN STREET SIDE
YOU CLEARLY READ THAT TO, YOU
KNOW, TWO BUILDINGS BASICALLY
JOINED WITH THAT CENTER BAY AND
THEN WHEN YOU GO TO THE OUTSIDE
YOU READ IT AS TWO BUILDINGS,
THREE TO THREE BUILDINGS IF YOU
WILL AND TRYING TO UNDERSTAND
WITH THE PROPOSAL THAT THAT
THAT GETS BLURRED
.
I'LL PASS.
YEAH, THAT THAT THAT'S SORT THE
TWO THREE DAY BUILDING CONCEPT
GETS YOU KNOW, NO LONGER READS
WITH THE PROPOSED RIGHT WITH
THAT ONE BAY THE NORTHERN PART
COMING ALL THE WAY OUT WE LOST
THAT THREE DAY.
THREE DAY YEAH.
SORRY TO FINISH.
YEAH.
AND YOU KNOW I THINK WE'VE ALL
BEEN THERE BUT THIS IS AN ALLEY
IT'S NOT A PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY.
IT'S A DELIVERY CORRIDOR.
I THINK IT TECHNICALLY IS A
PUBLIC RIGHT AWAY BUT I MEAN
OUR WORK RIGHT AWAY IT'S NOT A
SIDEWALK BUT YEAH IT'S IT'S A
IT'S A DELIVERY CORRIDOR.
IT'S NOT A SERVICE CORNER.
YEAH.
BUT I THINK AT A MINIMUM WELL
THIS PROBABLY GETS INTO
DISCUSSION.
OK, DO YOU WANT TO FINISH YOUR
THOUGHT.
YEAH YEAH.
JUST FINISH AT A MINIMUM I
THINK THE MESSAGE SHOULD
RETAINED OR CLEARLY READ AT THE
HISTORIC MASS.
YES.
SO I'LL LEAVE IT AT THAT VERY
GOOD.
THANK YOU FOR THE REPORT.
SO NOW WE WILL MOVE ON TO THE
OH ACTUALLY I'M SORRY WE'LL
HAVE THE APPLICANT PLEASE STEP
FORWARD, PROVIDE YOUR NAME
ADDRESS FOR THE RECORD YOU HAVE
FIVE MINUTES TO SPEAK BUT YOU
KNOW THE DRILL.
ANYTHING YOU WANT TO ADD TO THE
STAFF REPORT THE REVIEW
COMMITTEE REPORT.
NOW'S YOUR CHANCE RIGHT NOW.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR BEING
HERE.
GOOD BYE.
TO BE SACRIFICE LIBERTY
CONSTRUCTION OF COURSE BECAUSE
THE BIG ARCHITECTURE WHAT A
FINAL FEW DAYS I MENTIONED
EARLIER TO BE DO YOU MENTION
ABOUT THE RESERVE PACKAGE?
IT'S EXACTLY THOSE THAT ARE
WITH YOU I THINK IS WHAT WE'RE
GOING TO USE THE SAME FOR
POLITICAL ONE WITH CHRIS AND I
WE LOOKED AT THE DRAWING IF WE
DID AGREE THAT THE ENTIRE BACK
EAST WALL ALONG THE ALLEYWAY IT
REMAINED AS IS AND IF THE
COMMISSIONERS ARE OK, IF YOU
CAN NOTE THAT ON A TARGET THAT
WILL REMAIN 100 PERCENT AS NOT
OPENING WILL BE CHANGED.
NO WINDOWS ARE GOING TO BE
REPLACED.
THERE'S ONLY ONE DOOR ON THE
ALISI THAT ENTERED RETAIL SPACE
AND I SPOKE TO JILL AT THE
MEETING ON MONDAY THEN IF
THAT'S OK, WE CAN RELOCATED TO
THE SITE BECAUSE IN MANY, MANY
YEARS OF EXPERIENCE IN
CONSTRUCTION I'VE HAD MANY
PROBLEMS WITH WATER FLOODING
THE BUILDINGS AND THE ALLEYWAY
SITTING ON THE HARBOR AND
DETENTION AS STORMWATER CANNOT
KEEP UP ON EIGHT SEVEN TO EIGHT
INCHES OF STORM A LOT OF TIME
WE HAD TO GO IN A BUILDING AND
DEAL WITH WATER.
YEAH.
SO SHE MENTIONED IF WE CAN
RELOCATE THAT SITE AND STILL
YOU KNOW, THE OPENING WITH THE
TWO INCHES OF BRUCE'S BACK
THAT'S PRETTY MUCH THE ONLY
CHANGE IS GOING TO HAPPEN ON
THAT ONE.
EVERYTHING ELSE WILL REMAIN.
WE ALSO DON'T WANT THE DOOR IN
THE ALLEY.
WE'D LIKE THE DOOR TO BE OFF
ALEX TO TRUCKS TRUXILLO SO JUST
TO CLARIFY, YOU WOULD KEEP THE
GLASS BLOCK?
YES, HOPEFULLY NOT THE GRAFFITI
BUT JUST THE BUT THAT'S ABOUT
IT.
OK, THAT WILL REMAIN 100
PERCENT.
IT IS NO TOUCH AND ANYTHING
ABOVE ONE THING I NOTICED THAT
WE WERE TALKING EARLIER AND
ONCE YOU PASS TO THE DUFLO
THERE'S ALSO A SET BACK ABOUT
EIGHT TO 10 INCHES SET BACK TO
THE NEW MATERIAL.
SO IT KIND OF KEEPS THE
EXISTING SMOKE THE SAME THAT
MAKES SORRY THAT REAR WALL
ALWAYS HAS BEEN LIKE A FOOT
DOWN FROM THE ORIGINAL EAST
WALL BECAUSE OF THE STRUCTURAL
PROBLEMS WE'RE HAVING IN THE
FOUNDATION.
SO IT WILL AUTOMATICALLY HAVE A
DELINEATION NO MATTER WHAT TO
LEAVE IN THE END THIS SHOULD BE
A STOP.
THE THING WHILE WE'RE MAKING
THE NEW ADDITIONS WILL BE DOWN
BEHIND THAT WALL ACTUALLY
BUILDING A WALL BEHIND YOUNG
MAN IN THE DRAWINGS.
DOES THAT EAST WALL DID THAT
MOVE SEVERAL FEET EAST IN THE
DRAWINGS?
SO THIS IS WALL WHICH IS THIS
SHORT ONE OR THE TALL ONE?
THE TALL ONE COMES OVER.
YEAH.
OK, SO ALL OF THIS WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT THE FURTHEST THE
TWO STOREY EAST WALL.
YES.
WHEN YOU HAD SPOKEN EARLIER I
THOUGHT YOU WERE TALKING ABOUT
THE THREE STOREY YOU KNOW, OK,
OK BECAUSE THAT ONE'S MOVING
RIGHT.
VERY GOOD.
SO THAT'S WHAT WE'RE LOOKING AT
THERE.
THAT EAST WALL YOU'RE SAYING
ALL THOSE OPENINGS EVERYTHING
IS STAYING EXCEPT THE DOOR.
OK CAN BE NOTED ON ADDITIONS
BEHIND IT WILL BE OFFSET FROM
THAT.
SO IT'S GOING TO GO UP ALL THE
STRUCTURES BEHIND THE WALL.
YES, OK, WE'RE LET'S LET'S DO
YEAH YEAH LET'S LET'S KEEP YOU
HERE ACTUALLY IF THAT WAS IT
CAN WE ASK YOU SOME QUESTIONS.
LET'S LET'S DO THE DO WE NEED
TO DO THE PUBLIC HEARING FIRST.
YEAH OK YEAH LET'S PAUSE DO THE
PUBLIC I THINK WE HAVE A LOT
OF QUESTIONS LET'S DO THE
PUBLIC HEARING AND THEN
CONTINUE I THINK I'LL PROBABLY
GO QUICK SO LET'S OPEN THE
PUBLIC HEARING FOR THIS ITEM
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES ABOUT THIS
APPLICATION AT TWO FIFTEEN S
MAIN DO WE HAVE ANYONE PRESENT
SPEAKING IN THE PUBLIC HEARING
NOW?
DOES THAT LOOK LIKE IT AND NO
ONE IN THE ROOM RIGHT.
I'M GOING TO CLOSE THE PUBLIC
HEARING.
WE'RE GOING TO GO TO
COMMISSIONER FOR NOW WITH A
FOLLOW UP QUESTION.
SO THE THE ONE DAY OF THE NORTH
BUILDING THAT'S COMING ALL THE
WAY OUT TO THE ALLEY, THE
COMING UP YOU KNOW THE OTHER
PART THE PART THAT'S SO THERE'S
THREE DAYS OF THAT BUILDING AND
THE S MOST BAY IS GOING TO COME
OUT TO THE ALLEY BEHIND THE
PROPERTY LINE ON THE ALLEY.
NO THE UPPER FLOORS OR WELL
THEY'RE TALKING ABOUT AS AN
ADDITION ABOVE THE TWO YOU'RE
TALKING ABOUT THE ADDITION
ABOVE THE TWO STOREY BIT.
NO.
OH, OK.
NO, I'M TALKING ABOUT THE OTHER
THREE DAYS, OK?
NOT THE THREE DAYS FROM WHICH
THE TWO STOREY PART COMES OUT
NOW OK THE OTHER THREE DAYS IT
WILL ONLY COME THAT'S IN NORTH
TOWARDS THE ALLEY BUT NOT TO
THE ALLEY.
YOU'RE NONE OF IT IS WELL I
THOUGHT ONE OF THOSE BAYS WAS
GOING TO COME OUT THAT WE'RE
LOSING A DAY ON THAT BUILDING.
MM HM.
THE BIG PROBLEM DON'T STOP.
YEAH, THAT'S HOW IS GETTING
LISTERIA REFUSES TO THRIVE SO
WHERE THAT TWO STOREY SYSTEM
WALL IS NOW ON THE LINE.
THIS IS ALL I WANT TO HEAR WHAT
YOU'RE SAYING WITH A WARNING
WENT TO THE NORTH WALL OF THAT,
RIGHT?
YES.
AND I'M GOING TO BE THERE TO
WHAT HOW ARE YOU GOING TO
DIFFERENTIATE THAT WALL FROM
THE OLD WALL YOU'RE KEEPING TO
THAT YOU DON'T EXIST SO IT WILL
GO THAT WILL BE NEW WILL MATCH
THE KNEE ON THE UPPER STOREY.
SO CAN YOU GO TO ONE?
BUT IT'S NOT IT'S NOT INSIDE.
IT'S GOING TO BE A FLASH ACROSS
TO THE WALL YOU'LL SEE THE
DIFFERENCE.
YOU'VE GOT A YEAH ON THE RIGHT
ONE IS THAT SAME FLAT AND
CONTINUES DOWN THAT WALL AND
ACROSS THE NEW ONE THAT'S ONLY
COMING OUT TEN FEET AND THEN
FOR THE TEN FEET OF THAT WALL
AND THEN YOU GOT THE COVER IS
THAT IMAGE ON THE RIGHT ON YOUR
SCREEN IS THAT IS THAT IT WHAT
ARE YOU FEELING YOU'RE SEEING
NOW WHAT YOU JUST HEARD THAT'S
AN EXISTING BUILDING THAT WAS
NOT THE BUILDING ON TOP OF THE
IMAGE ON THE RIGHT CAN'T SEE IN
THIS PICTURE.
OH, IT'S NOT AN OLD PART THAT'S
ON THE ALLEYWAY.
SO THE WORD IS OLD.
THIS WILL BE NEW BRICK.
THIS WILL BE NEW YOU KNOW, TEN
FEET OF THIS WILL BE NEW BRICK
ON THE SIDE.
SOME OF THIS WILL BE OH I SEE.
YEAH.
SOME OF THIS FACADE IS NEW.
YES.
YEAH, YEAH.
SO YOU'RE NOT SEEING IN THIS
PICTURE RIGHT.
WE'RE NOT SEEING THE
DIFFERENTIATING BETWEEN THAT
OLD TWO STOREY SECTION AND THE
DENHA HOW MANY FEET THAT IS
OF THE NEW ROUGHLY IF WE DREW A
LINE ROUGHLY BETWEEN THOSE TWO
WINDOWS AND THAT DOOR WINDOW
STRAIGHT DOWN IT'S ROUGHLY IN
THAT AREA ONE FIVE FOUR FEET.
SO THOSE WINDOWS AREN'T THE
EXISTING WINDOWS.
SO HOW DO WE KNOW?
NO, NO.
SHE'S TALKING ABOUT THE SQUARE
THAT'S ON MY LIST OF THINGS TO
THINK.
YEAH, YEAH.
WELL THAT'S AN AND TECHNICALLY
THERE SHOULD BE SOME
DELINEATION FOR NEW MATERIAL.
OK, LET'S LET'S RESET HERE,
COMMISSIONER.
KIND OF DID YOU HAVE SOMETHING
TO BRING UP TO THE WE WERE IT
WAS OK TO HAVE THE SAME YES
AREA WERE VERY GOOD OK DID WE
HAVE MOMENTUM TO ANOTHER
COMMENT OR QUESTION OR DO WE
NEED TO JUMP IN HERE.
DID YOU GUYS HAVE ANYTHING
CLEAR NOW THAT THAT ALL STAYING
THE EAST WALL IS STAYING AS IS
NOW WE WILL DELIVER YOU THOUGH
FROM THE NEW FROM THE OLD I A
QUESTION.
YEAH.
SO CAN YOU SPEAK TO THE CHOICE
AND I KNOW THAT THE KIND
OF THIS THE ADJACENT BUILDING
THE NEW CONNECTOR PIECE IS THIS
QUITE WITH A SPLIT THIS BLOCK
BUT CAN YOU SPEAK TO THE CHOICE
OF MATERIALITY AND JUST KIND
OF BECAUSE I UNDERSTAND LIKE
THIS TYPE OF CONCRETE BLOCK
DOESN'T REALLY HAVE THE BEST
KIND OF LIKE THEY WILL IN NEW
YORK ON THAT NORTH TO NO THE
NEW THE NEW ADDITIONS CONCRETE
BLOCK TO UPPER.
YEAH, THAT'S GOING TO BE A
BRICK OBVIOUSLY WE WANT A
DIFFERENT FROM THAT THEN.
OH YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT BACK ON
US THIS MORE SPLIT BLOCK SPLIT
BASED BLOCK YOU KNOW SOMETHING
BASCH LIKE CENTRAL AVENUE
THAT'S WHAT THEY DO I THINK.
YEAH YEAH YEAH IT'S VERY
SIMILAR TO WHAT'S NEXT DOOR BUT
THAT'S NOT THE COLOR YOU KNOW
AND IF YOU HAVE A PICTURE THAT
PICTURE THE ABOVE I THINK I'M
ACTUALLY YEAH I REMEMBER SEEING
ONE YOU IT'S HERE RIGHT NOW NOT
OBVIOUSLY NOT
THAT COLOR.
IT'S GOING TO BE MORE LIKE A
BEIGE COLOR WE'RE GOING TO FOR
A LITTLE BIT LATER.
IT WON'T HAVE OBVIOUSLY IT WILL
NOT HAVE THE TEXTURE LIKE ALL
YOU SEE ON THIS WALL.
THIS IS MORE LIKE A SPLIT FACE.
THE OTHER ONE IS MORE BROWNISH,
LESS OF A WAVY TO IT.
YOU KNOW, CLEAN LOOK.
OK, SO IT WON'T BE KIND OF LIKE
RUSTICATED LIKE THIS BURNISHED
BLOCK THIS SPLIT FACE WHICH IS
THE ROUGH SURFACE WAS BURNISHED
PRETTY MUCH WHAT THEY DO THEY
TAKE THE SAME PRODUCT AND THEY
GRIND IT DOWN, POLISH IT.
YOU GET A BETTER WATERPROOFING,
YOU KNOW, TEXTURE VERSUS YOU
KNOW, PORC.
OK, I SAY YOU YEAH.
WE WOULD DEFINITELY APPRECIATE
EITHER IMAGES OR SAMPLES
OF MATERIAL SO WE KNOW WHAT'S
PROPOSED WOULD BE VERY HELPFUL
NOT OK.
SO WE TALKED ABOUT THE THE TWO
STOREY EAST FACING WALL THAT'S
IN THE UPPER LEFT THERE AND IN
THE LOWER RIGHT WE HAVE THE
EXISTING REAR FACADE OF THIS
OF THIS HISTORIC STRUCTURE AND
THAT IS PROPOSED TO BE REMOVED
AND A NEW WALL IS GOING TO BE
BUILT TEN FEET FURTHER EAST.
CORRECT.
THAT'S THREE STORIES THAT KIND
OF LOOKS HISTORIC AND THEN
THERE'S AN ADDITION ON TOP
OF IT TO ME THAT WAS A
CONFUSING PART OF THE
APPLICATION WHERE IT WAS A IT
ALMOST LOOKED LIKE THE EXACT
SAME WALL WAS BEING REBUILT,
MOVED TEN FEET AND THEN IT SORT
OF LOOKED LIKE A HISTORIC
BUILDING WITH AN ADDITION ON IT
.
AND I FEEL LIKE KIND OF LIKE
WHAT WAS PROPOSED FOR THIS TWO
STOREY SECTION.
IT'S LIKE THE BUILDING'S NOT
QUITE THE RIGHT SHAPE THAT WE
WISH IT WAS LOOK LIKE THIS.
YOU KNOW, WE WISH THE TWO
STOREY ONE WAS A LITTLE WIDER
THIS WAY WE WISH THE THREE
STOREY ONE WAS A LITTLE DEEPER
AND THEN WE'RE GOOD.
BUT YOU KNOW, EVERYONE WHO OWNS
THESE HISTORIC STRUCTURES, YOU
KNOW THAT'S YOU KNOW, YOU GET
WHAT IS THERE AND YOU CAN'T
IT'S AGAINST THE STANDARDS TO
TRY TO REBUILD IT IN A WAY
WHERE SOMEONE WOULD LOOK AT IT
AND AND GET A SENSE OF HISTORY
THAT THAT WASN'T ACTUALLY IN
REALITY.
SO TO ME WHEN WHEN I LOOK AT
WHAT WAS PROPOSED OR THAT WHAT
WE'VE ALREADY TALKED ABOUT THE
TWO STOREY ONE I GET THE SAME
THING WITH THAT THREE STOREY
ONE AND I'M JUST WONDERING IF
THERE'S ANY CONVERSATION ON HOW
THE COMMISSIONERS FEEL ABOUT
THAT PARTICULAR PIECE OF THE
PROPOSAL.
I TEND TO AGREE.
I THINK YOU PRESENT CLEARLY IS
.
YEAH.
CREATING THAT FALSE HISTORY OR
MISLEADING AND THAT IS
CERTAINLY GOES AGAINST THE
STANDARDS.
I ALSO FEEL THAT THE CITY IS
UNDER THE SECRETARY'S
GUIDELINES MASONRY NOT
RECOMMENDED REPLACING OR
REBUILDING A MAJOR PORTION
OF THE EXTERIOR MASONRY WALLS
THAT CAN BE REPAIRED SO THAT AS
A RESULT THE BUILDING IS NO
LONGER HISTORIC AND ESSENTIALLY
A NEW CONSTRUCTION.
I THINK THERE'S A LOT OF THAT
GOING ON STILL ON THE SIDE THE
THE PROPERTY.
SO KIND OF THOSE TWO IDEAS.
SO I MEAN THE WAY WE HAVE
BUILDING THE BLOCK IS GOING ALL
THE WAY DOWN TO THE GROUND IN
THE BRICK BECAUSE BEEN YOU'RE
ON THE FRONT OF THAT TO CREATE
THE STUFF SO IT COULD BE EASY
FOR US TO JUST TAKE THE BRICK
OFF AND PUT THE IN DOING JUST
CONTINUE BUILDING STRAIGHT DOWN
AND NOT TRYING TO REPLICATE BUT
I GUESS OK, THAT'S PART OF IT.
AND THEN THE THE OTHER PART IS
IS ADDITIONS.
WELL FIRST OF ALL THERE'S A
QUESTION OF REMOVING HISTORIC
MATERIALS WHICH THAT RARE
ELEVATION IS HISTORIC AND IT'S
CONTRIBUTING YOU COULD ARGUE IS
THE MOST DEFINING PART OF THE
BUILDING.
NO.
SO THAT'S WHY THE STANDARDS SAY
IF YOU WANT TO BUILD AN
ADDITION YOU SHOULD BUILD ON
THE LEASE CHARACTER DEFINING
PART OF OF THE BUILDING.
SO THAT'S THE REAR OF THE
BUILDING IN THIS CASE I'M NOT
TALKING ABOUT THE THE TWO
STORIES THAT YOU'RE PROPOSING
TO PUT ON TOP RIGHT NOW BUT IN
THE REAR SO YOU'VE CHOSEN THE
ELEVATION THERE BUT IT ALSO
SAYS I MEAN JUST READING HERE
DESIGNING NEW ADDITIONS IN A
MANNER THAT MAKES IT CLEAR
WHAT'S HISTORIC AND WHAT'S NEW.
SO THAT'S TYPICALLY, YOU KNOW,
SOME SORT OF INSET OF A FOOT OR
SOMETHING WHATEVER MAKES SENSE
FOR THE PROJECT.
BUT BUT SOME WAY THAT SHOWING
THAT THE ADDITION IS BOARDING
IT IN SOME WAY AND
DIFFERENTIATED FROM THE FROM A
HISTORIC STRUCTURE THAT'S THERE
BECAUSE I MEAN I LIKE MY ISSUE
IN THIS KIND OF FOLLOWING UP ON
JUST BECAUSE VOTING IS THIS IS
LIKE OK SO WE ALL AGREE THAT
THIS RELEVATION IS NOT
NECESSARILY IT'S NOT A PRIMARY
ELEVATION.
RIGHT.
BUT WE'RE SAYING IT'S CHARACTER
DEFINING THEN TYPICALLY IT'S
LIKE A HOUSE YOU COULD STILL AT
LEAST KNOW AND SEE YOUR
ELEVATION AND THEN THE ADDITION
IS KIND OF BUILT VERSUS LIKE
TAKING THE WHOLE YEAR WELL
DOWN.
ABSOLUTELY.
YEAH.
AND SO THAT'S ONE OF COMMENT
THAT WAS NOT OUR CALL.
THIS STRUCTURAL ENGINEER RECORD
CHOSE TO BUILD THAT WALL
BECAUSE THE LIFESPAN OF THAT
WELL IT'S PRETTY MUCH DONE IS
ACTUALLY DESIGNED A TEMPORARY
BRIDGE BECAUSE IT'S FALLING
DOWN.
IT WAS NOT THE ARCHITECT KARL,
NOR DID THE DEVELOPER OF THE
PROJECT.
IT WAS IF YOU LOOK AT THE
PACKAGE PACKAGES MULTIPLE
LETTERS THAT WAS WRITTEN BY HIM
THAT THE BOARD MUST BE REMOVED
IN ORDER TO BUILD YOU KNOW, WE
TRIED TO SALVAGE WHAT WE LOOKED
AT IN MANY WAYS IT'S JUST THAT
THEY'VE REALLY, REALLY BAD REAL
WORLD THAT IT'S IT'S IT'S
SEVERELY DAMAGE BUT THERE BUT
THEN THE POINT I'M MAKING IS I
MEAN WHEN YOU LOOK AT THE
STANDARDS AND IF WE'RE SAYING
THAT WALLS CHARACTER DEFINING
AND IF DETERIORATED BEYOND
REPAIR THEN IT'S GOT TO BE
REPLICATED IN SO THEN I GUESS
LIKE WHAT'S THE QUESTION AROUND
HOW DO YOU REPLICATE IF YOU'RE
GOING TO I DON'T KNOW.
IT'S JUST IT'S SEEMS
PROBLEMATIC LIKE TRYING TO
APPLY THE STANDARD LEAVE THAT
ALL THEIR FATHER DOES ANYTHING
STOPPING US FROM ADDING THE NEW
WALL TEN FEET IN FRONT OF IT.
WELL BLOCK WALL BECAUSE I MEAN
WHY CAN'T IF WE BUILD THE NEW
WALL IN FRONT OF THE OLD WALL,
IS THERE ANYTHING STOPPING US
FROM BUILDING THE NEW WALL AND
KEEPING THE OLD WALL THERE?
WHAT WE DID WHAT THE STANDARDS
SAY IS THAT WHATEVER YOU ARE
PROPOSING TO BUILD THAT'S NEW
THE EXISTING STRUCTURE SHOULD
STILL BE VISIBLE IN A WAY I
MEAN IT DOESN'T SAY THAT
EXACTLY.
BUT IF YOU KIND OF READ THROUGH
THE STANDARDS IT NEEDS TO BE
SUBORDINATE.
IT NEEDS TO BE DIFFERENTIATED
SO ALL OF THOSE THINGS ARE
TELLING US THAT AN ADDITION
THAT MEETS THE STANDARDS YOU
CAN STILL SEE THE HISTORIC
STRUCTURE THAT W THERE A
CHARACTER DEFINING THING YOU
PUT THE ADDITION THE STANDARDS
OF THE ADDITIONS AND I SUPPORT
A SUBORDINATE ELEVATION WHICH
IS REAR SO IT'S A REAR EDITION
THAT IS SUBORDINATE TO THE
HISTORIC.
SO YES, YOU COULD BUILD A NEW
WALL IN FRONT THAT WALL AS LONG
AS WHEN YOU ARE LOOKING
BEHIND
THE NEW WALL BUT ALSO BEHIND
THOUGH BEHIND THE NEW IS
STANDING MENTIONED AND IF THERE
WAS STRUCTURALLY IMPACT THEN IT
CAN BE REBUILT AND REBUILT.
IT SAYS THAT VERY CLEARLY BUT
IT'S A REPLICA BUT IT DOESN'T
SAY YOU CAN MOVE IT 10 FEET AND
REBUILD.
IT SAYS MOVE, YOU CAN REBUILD.
WE MOVING BECAUSE WE'RE GETTING
MORE SET BACK IN A FRONT AND IF
YOU DON'T MOVE THAT WE CAN
LEAVE IT THE SAME THE SAME
PLACE AS IT OK AND NOT MOVE IT.
JUST TAKE THE WORLD ON BOARD
THE BACK.
HER STRUCTURAL ENGINEER ONLY
FEET WE HAVE TO GO FROM 12 FEET
TO 19 AND WE CAN'T GET OUR
REMOTE MEANS OF EGRESS THAT
REQUIRES TWO MEANS OF EGRESS
AND WE CAN MEET THAT IF YOU GO
IF YOU DON'T COME BACK AND
THAT'S THE PROBLEM.
WE'RE GETTING INTO A BUILDING
CONDITION.
YEAH, I UNDERSTAND.
OK, SO LET'S ARE THERE I'D LIKE
TO TALK TO ABOUT THE ROOF
EDITION AS WELL BUT I JUST WANT
TO MAKE SURE THAT IF THERE ARE
ANY MORE COMMENTS ABOUT THE
ALLEY SIDE.
ALL RIGHT.
SO THE THE ROOF ADDITION SO TWO
STORIES JUST LIKE BEFORE BUT
NOW THIS IS SET BACK MUCH
FURTHER WHICH WE APPRECIATE BUT
ARE THERE COMMENTS HERE ON THIS
?
WELL, I GUESS THIS IS A
QUESTION FROM THE SITE THAT WE
TALKED ABOUT YOU TAKING SOME
ADDITIONAL PHOTOGRAPHS.
I DON'T KNOW IF YOU'VE GOT I
DON'T I SAID LATE LAST I HIRED
A PROFESSIONAL TO IT ON THROWN
AT A FIGHT WITH OTHER NATION ON
EACH THEN AND SOMEHOW YOU CAN
PULL UP YOU KNOW YOU CAN CLICK
ON IT AND REALLY I HAVE IT HERE
AND LET'S SEE IF IS A MISMATCH
.
YOU CAN GET IT I CAN YOU SEND
IT TO ME AGAIN.
ABSOLUTELY.
OK RIGHT NOW JUST FOR THE OTHER
COMMISSIONERS AND YOU KNOW IN
ADDITION TO THE RENDERINGS THAT
WERE PROVIDED, JUST ASKING YOU
KNOW, COULD COULD SAM PROVIDE
OR THAT WE CAN PROVIDE, YOU
KNOW, SOME SORT OF MARKUP OR
SOME SIGNAL
UP ON THE ROOF
WHERE THAT 19 FOOT HIGH DO YOU
GET TO SEE EVERYTHING REALLY?
IT'S A LIVE VIDEO WITH THAT
WITH THE OK, SAM, I GOT IT.
THEY GOT FILTERED SORRY.
AND I THINK THAT'S FOR SHARED
INFORMATION THAT COMMISSIONER
YOU GET A VERY CLEAR
UNDERSTANDING OF WHERE THAT
DIRTY PIPE IS EITHER
INTERSECTION WASHINGTON AND
LIBERTY AT A HIGH LEVEL AND YOU
HAVE THE WHOLE PENNESHAW THE
TUNNELS ALL THE WAY UP AND YOU
CAN SEE THE HUMAN 12 FOOT
LADDER BUT AT TWENTY FOUR IT'S
PRETTY COOL.
LET'S LET'S WATCH THE FILM HAVE
SO THE RED FLAG IS WHAT THEN
THAT'S THE TOP OF THE THAT'S
TOP OF THE HEAD STEEL OFF THE
TOP OF THE SLOPES THE VERY TOP
POINT.
OK, HOW ARE YOU GEORGE.
AND WE LOOKED AT IT VERY
CLEARLY IT'S VISIBLE FROM HERE
IN A SECTION THAT STANDS BACK
BECAUSE HE'S IN THE CENTER
OF OH MAN OK.
IT WOULD HAVE BEEN HELPFUL TO
HAVE, YOU KNOW, TWO FLAGS ONE
ON EACH AND BECAUSE THEN THAT
WOULD REALLY GIVE US A POINT TO
SEE.
BUT OK, VERY COOL.
CAN'T YOU IS THAT IT IS THAT
WE'RE JUST LOOKING OVER AND
OVER AGAIN THAT'S FAR FROM DONE
A FEW TIMES THAT'S NICE.
OK ALL RIGHT I GUESS I'LL JUST
I'LL GET INTO THE COMMENTS
HERE.
I FEEL LIKE THE WHEN I IMAGINE
JUST A ONE STORY ADDITION
INSTEAD OF THE TWO STORIES
ABOVE IT REALLY IS STARTING TO
FEEL LIKE I CAN IMAGINE THIS
PROPOSAL MEETING THE STANDARDS
LIKE THIS IMAGE RIGHT HERE ON
THE LEFT.
IT IS NOT MEETING STANDARDS.
IT'S IT'S A VERY VISIBLE
ADDITION.
I MEAN WITH THE WINDOWS THERE
LIKE LIKE MAYBE IF THEY WERE
JUST LIKE YOU KNOW, A LINE OF A
ROOF OR YOU KNOW SOMETHING BUT
THAT IS LIKE REALLY GOING TO
DRAW YOUR EYE TO SEE THE
BALCONY.
I MEAN YEAH IT'S IT'S TO ME
IT'S JUST NOT NOT MEETING THE
STANDARDS BECAUSE IT'S GOING TO
FEEL AND THAT AS WELL I MEAN
JUST JUST SEEING THAT LOOMING
OVER THE HISTORIC STRUCTURE IS
CHANGING THE REALLY THE SETTING
THE YOU HOW THAT WHOLE SETTING
FEELS THERE ON THAT STRIP
OF BUILDINGS IT OUT REAL QUICK.
ABSOLUTELY.
LET'S HEAR YEAH.
I'M WALKING DOWN THIS ROAD
EARLIER THIS AFTERNOON I FOUND
THAT ONE QUARTER FROM STARBUCKS
TO BE PROBABLY ONE OF THE MORE
FLATTERING VIEWS AS WELL.
YEAH.
WALKING DOWN MORE TOWARDS
REGENCIES CAN BE MORE VISIBLE
TO THE BILLBOARD.
MM HMM.
ANY ANY COMMENTS AND HOW WE
FEEL ABOUT LIKE AND ALSO I
ASKED THE QUESTION EARLIER I'M
LOOKING AT THE FIFTH FLOOR
THERE RIGHT.
AND THEN I'M SEEING A LINE
OF BLACK AT THE VERY TOP.
I ASSUME THAT'S THE FRONT
OF THE METAL ROOF.
YEAH.
AND SO FROM THIS ANGLE IS IT
NOT DRAWN OR AM I NOT SEEING
THE FROM THIS ANGLE BUT THERE'S
A SIDE TO IT IT'S IT'S LIKE
THIS BUT WHAT ABOUT THIS SIDE
OF IT?
I DON'T EVEN SEE THE SIDE.
IT'S SOMETHING VERY VERY VERY
TRADITIONAL SO FAR AWAY.
IS IT HIPPED AROUND OR
SOMETHING?
YEAH, IT'S IT'S HIT THE FLOOR
AND THEN PRESUMABLY IT GOES UP
TO LIKE A PARAPET THAT'S HIDING
THE AIR HANDLERS OR SOMETHING
LIKE THAT.
SO WOULDN'T I SEE THE SIDE
OF THAT IN THIS VIEW YOU WON'T
SEE BECAUSE THAT DOESN'T HAVE A
HIP ROOF.
IT LOOKS LIKE IF YOU PULL UP
THE THERE'S A SMALL EDGE YOU
SEE ON THE RIGHT IT'S BEHIND
THE TREE SO THERE'S ANOTHER
FOUR FEET AFTER THE VERY FRONT
EDGE OF THAT METAL ROOF.
THE LOW EDGE THERE'S ANOTHER
FOUR FEET OF ELEVATION.
THE TRIANGLE SET BACK QUITE A
WAYS BUT FOR THE PURPOSE PUSH
BACK A LITTLE BIT.
IT'S ALL SLIPPING TOWARDS THE
PARAPET.
SO WHEN YOU'RE FROM THE GROUND
YOU WILL NOT SEE THE METAL ROOF
AND ALL THEN WHY DO YOU NEED IT
I GUESS IS THE QUESTION IF YOU
DON'T SEE IT FROM THE GROUND
WHAT IS IT DOING?
BECAUSE THERE IS I MEAN WE
REMOVE IT BUT WHEN WE'RE ON
THERE'S ROOFTOP EQUIPMENT
STRAIGHT ON ELEVATIONS YOU SEE
THE ELEVATION OF YOU RIGHT.
BECAUSE YOU FROM ELEVATION FOR
PERSPECTIVE YOU NEVER SEE THE
BATTLE AND THE IDEA THAT WE
NEED THE EDGE OF THE PARAPET TO
GO UP FOR THE FIRE RATING.
YOU NEED THE BUT OK, WE WANT TO
SCREAM DOWN THE ELEVATION
ANYTHING ON THE ROOF TO BE SEEN
FROM THE GROUND.
BUT WE DIDN'T WANT THE PARAPET.
WE WANTED TO LOWER THE FIFTH
FLOOR AS MUCH AS POSSIBLE.
SO YOU DON'T SEE IT FROM THE
GROUND.
OK, I STILL DON'T GET EXACTLY
WHY THE METAL ROOF SHOULD BE
THERE BUT I GET LIKE THE YEAH.
THE BACK OF THAT SECOND REMOVE
THE HEAD THAT'S ABOUT IT.
NO ONE WILL SEE EITHER WAY THAT
IS UP TO YOU.
OK BUT THANKS FOR THE
CLARIFICATION I TO GO BACK TO
THAT THAT IMAGE FROM LIBERTY
MAYBE BEFORE I WENT DOWN THAT
TANGENT I'D LIKE TO HEAR MORE
COMMENTS ABOUT JUST LIKE WE'RE
LOOKING AT THAT FIFTH STORY
HERE I PERSONALLY AM I IF I'M
JUST SEEING FOUR STORIES I'M
REALLY LIKING IT IN TERMS
OF ITS ABILITY TO MEET THE
STANDARDS WITH THE FIFTH STORY
I SEE STANDARDS THAT IT'S NOT
MEETING AND AND SO I'M HAVING
HESITATION IN SUPPORTING IT
WITH THAT FIFTH STORY.
BUT I'D LIKE TO HEAR OTHER
OTHER COMMENTS.
I'M A LITTLE CONFUSED BY SOME
OF THE DIFFERENT DRAWINGS
BECAUSE I THOUGHT THERE WERE
SOME OF THOSE PERSPECTIVE
DRAWINGS TOO THAT ARE IN HERE
WHERE IT SAYS IT WON'T LOOK
LIKE THAT.
YOU WON'T SEE THAT MUCH OF THE
FIFTH FLOOR.
YEAH, FROM WELL FROM THE GROUND
YOU NEVER SEE THE FOURTH FLOOR
ITSELF.
SO THE IT APPEARS THE ADDITION
IS ONE STORY FROM THE GROUND
AND ELEVATION FOR YOU.
YOU WOULD SEE IT AS ONE OF THE
HALF STORY BUT NO ONE WILL SEE
THE STRAIGHT DOWN VIEW UNLESS
RAID ON THE BUILDING ACROSS THE
STREET.
YOU'VE GOT TO REMEMBER
ELEVATION YOU'RE STANDING WHAT
HEIGHT?
NINETEEN TWENTY FEET OFF THE
GROUND.
YEAH.
THE POINT OF THE STANDARDS
OF SAYING THAT THERE'S REALLY
USUALLY ONLY ONE STORY ALLOWED
ON A THREE STORY BUILDING IS SO
THAT YOU DON'T SEE THAT ONE
STORY.
IT'S NOT SO THAT WE'D LIKE TO
SEE A STORY UP THERE.
THE STANDARDS DON'T WANT TO SEE
ANYTHING UP THERE.
THEY SAY SET BACK ONE DAY AND
MAYBE ONE STORY IS APPROPRIATE
FOR A ONE, TWO OR THREE STORY
BUILDING.
SO SO THAT'S THAT'S WHERE THAT
THE STANDARDS ARE VERY CLEAR ON
THAT.
YEAH.
THE FROM THE AVERAGE DISTRICT
DESIGN GUIDELINES UNDER
ADDITION TO WHAT'S DESCRIBED AS
APPROPRIATE WHEN REQUIRED
DESIGNING ADDITIONAL STORIES
THAT ARE SET BACK IN THE FRONT
AND SIDEWALK PLANS AND IRAS
INCONSPICUOUS AS POSSIBLE WHEN
VIEWED FROM THE STREET I DON'T
RIGHT NOW THIS FIFTH STORY IS
NOT RIGHT AND IS THAT VIDEO
WITH THE DRONE FOOTAGE
DIFFERENT THAN WHAT WE'RE
LOOKING AT HERE?
YES, WE DON'T KNOW THE SURFACE
LIKE YEAH IT'S LIKE YES, YOU
WOULDN'T SEE A CENTER RIGHT TO
TWELVE ONCE AT ONCE I'D SAY I'M
JUST ONE MOMENT WHERE ARE YOU
DONE WITH YOUR COMMENT?
I'M SORRY I JUST THOUGHT YOU
WERE YEAH NO I THINK I SAID
IT'S NOT THE SAME.
YEAH OK YES I THINK THERE YEAH
BUT IT WOULD SEEM TO COUNTER
THAT YOU WOULD SEE THAT MUCH
OF THAT BUILDING IF YOU CAN'T
SEE THAT FLAG IN THE CENTER ONE
CENTER POINT AND ROOFLINE WAS
THAT WHAT THE DRONE WAS SHOWING
US THAT WHEN YOU WERE STANDING
ON THE CORNER YOU COULDN'T SEE
THAT FLAG WELL AND THE FLAG
REPRESENTED LIKE A CENTER POINT
AS A TOP OF THE ROOF.
BUT IS THAT WOULDN'T IT?
YEAH, I THINK SO.
SO YOU HAVE TO THERE WAS THAT
AND THEN THERE'S THE DRAWING.
SO I JUST WHICH ONE IS IT IS
WHAT YOU'RE SAYING RIGHT?
I GUESS SO.
ALL RIGHT SAM, WHAT WERE YOU
SAYING?
I'M SORRY ABOUT THE FOURTH
FLOOR FIFTH FLOOR YOU KNOW AND
I'VE SEEN MANY, MANY BUILDING
STORY LIKE THAT.
YOU CAN VERY CLEARLY SEE FOURTH
AND FIFTH YOU KNOW HIM AFTER
THE PROJECT THAT WE DESIGN
REALLY REALLY IN MY OPINION,
YOU KNOW, IT SEEMS THAT IF YOU
DON'T YOU CAN'T YOU CAN'T SEE
OR YOU CAN'T SEE THE PEOPLE OR
YOU WANT TO SEE THE ROAD.
SO YOU KNOW, WE WERE PUSHED SO
MUCH OF THIS BUILDING THAT TO
TRY TO HOPE TO GET ON THE DANCE
FLOOR PROPERLY.
BUT YOU KNOW, WE JUST WE JUST
KEEP REDUCING REDUCING FLOORS
BEFORE, YOU KNOW, THERE'S COSTS
ASSOCIATED WITH THE
CONSTRUCTION AT SOME POINT WE
HAVE TO LOOK AT, YOU KNOW,
FIRST WHAT MAKES SENSE.
BUT 2004 IS ONE OF THE
BUILDING.
YOU KNOW, IT'S ONE OF THEM YOU
KNOW, WE KEPT THE FLOOR HEIGHT
VERY MINIMAL TO TO REDUCE THE
VISIBILITY AND YOU KNOW, AT
THIS POINT JUST MYSELF LOOKING
AT IT, I THINK IT HELPS IT
MEETS ALL THE STANDARDS WHICH
STATE YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS
PLEASE WELCOME MY A REMINDER
OF THE PROPERTY OWNER I REZA
JUST WANT TO MENTION THAT THERE
IS ALREADY THE PRESIDENT THAT
MR.
THIS COMMISSION HAS
APPROVED PROPERTIES LIKE RIGHT
BEHIND THIS BUILDING ON 42ND
STREET THERE IS A TWO STOREY
BUILDING THAT HAD IN ADDITION
THREE STORIES AND THREE STORY
NOW IS FIVE STORIES MUCH MORE
VISIBLE THAN WHAT WE HAVE
PROPOSED IN HERE.
I MEAN THERE IS MULTIPLE
PRESIDENTS AND THAT WAS TRUE IN
TOWN BY THE HISTORY DISTRICT
COMMISSION THAT IT STARTED
ESTABLISH SO AND THOSE THREE
STORIES ARE MORE MUCH MORE
VISIBLE THAN WHAT WE ARE
PROPOSING HERE.
WE HAVE DONE EVERYTHING I'VE
DONE A LOT OF PROJECTS IN
DOWNTOWN THAT EVERYTHING I WANT
IS IN DOWNTOWN WITH RESPECT MR.
WE WANT TO KEEP THAT HISTORIC
NATURE OF DOWNTOWN.
IT IS I MEAN THAT'S MY
INTENTION AND I THINK I PROVEN
THAT AND WE HAVE THE SAME
INTENTION WE WANT TO KEEP THAT
HE STARTED FEELING OF DOWNTOWN.
IT'S VERY IMPORTANT TO ME AND
WE ARE DOING IT BUT I THINK THE
QUESTION THAT'S BEING RAISED
HERE I THINK IS A LITTLE BIT
UNFAIR BECAUSE WE ARE GOING
ABOVE AND BEYOND WHAT IS
NECESSARY.
THE REASON WE ARE ASKING FOR
THAT FIFTH FLOOR I MEAN IS THIS
BUILDING HAS BEEN VACANT AND
NOT BEEN UTILIZED FOR OVER
SIXTY YEARS.
THE TOP FLOOR OF BUILDING IS
BEEN SUBLIGHT AND IT TAKES A
LOT OF MONEY TO FIX THIS AND I
MEAN IF WE DON'T HAVE THAT
FINANCIALLY IT JUST DOESN'T
MAKE SENSE.
I MEAN IT'S NOT THAT WE WANT TO
GET ANOTHER FLORIDA.
IT REALLY DOESN'T I MEAN IF WE
CAN GET IT THIS PROJECT IS
DEAD .
IT JUST DOESN'T MAKE SENSE.
I MEAN AS IT IS IT DOESN'T MAKE
SENSE.
WE ARE PUTTING A LOT OF CAPITAL
IN GETTING THIS BUILDING MAKING
USE USEFUL AND CONTRIBUTING
STRUCTURE TO DOWNTOWN AND I
THINK AS WE LOOK AT THE HISTORY
OF WHAT I HAVE DONE, WE WE DONE
I THINK WE HAVE DONE WELL FOR
DOWNTOWN AND THAT'S THE CENTRAL
STATION.
SO IF WE CANNOT GET THE FIFTH
FLOOR, THIS PROJECT IS NOT
GOING TO HAPPEN AND BEEN
UPFRONT AND HONEST.
I JUST GOING TO LET THE
MECHANIC DO FINANCIALLY JUST
DOESN'T MAKE SENSE BECAUSE IT
TAKES SO MUCH CAPITAL.
THIS BELIEF THIS BUILDING IS
STRUCTURALLY UNSOUND.
IT TAKES A LOT OF MONEY.
YOU HAVE TO PUT STEEL STRUCTURE
INSIDE OF THIS BUILDING.
YOU'RE REPEATING YOURSELF NOW
SO I YOU HAVE FIVE MINUTES.
I WASN'T TIMING YOU.
I THINK YOU'RE PROBABLY THERE
BUT DO YOU HAVE ANOTHER COMMAND
OR TWO OR NO.
OK, I'M MY MAIN POINT.
YEAH THE PRESIDENT IS ALREADY
SET OK THE HISTORIC DISTRICT
COMMISSION HAS APPROVED FIVE
STORIES IN A HISTORIC DISTRICT
NOT ONE PLACE MULTIPLE PLACES.
OK, ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
I REALLY APPRECIATE YOU COMING
UP AND MAKING THOSE COMMENTS.
YEAH.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
I'LL JUST SAY A FEW THINGS AND
THEN I'LL SEE IF THERE'S MORE
COMMENTS AND THEN AND THEN
WE'LL PROBABLY WRAP UP THE
DISCUSSION BUT I GUESS THE
FIRST THING IS IS I DON'T THINK
ANYONE HERE SAID THAT WE CAN'T
WE THAT YOU CAN'T HAVE A FIFTH
FLOOR ON THIS BUILDING.
WHAT I DID HEAR COMMENTS WERE
WHEN WE SEE THE FIFTH FLOOR
FROM MAIN STREET FROM THOSE TWO
CORNERS AND FROM IN FRONT
OF THE BUILDING ON MAIN STREET
DOES NOT MEET THE CODE SORRY IT
DOES NOT MEET THE STANDARDS.
OK, THAT THAT'S THAT WAS THE
COMMENT THAT WAS SAID.
NO ONE'S MADE A COMMENT ABOUT
YOU CAN'T HAVE A FIFTH FLOOR.
ANOTHER THING I'LL SAY IS JUST
EVERY SINGLE HEARING THAT WE
HAVE IS A CASE BY CASE BASIS.
THERE'S NO PRECEDENT IN THE
HISTORIC DISTRICT SO EVERY
SINGLE HEARING, EVERY SINGLE
PROPERTY WE HAVE TO TAKE ALL
THE INFORMATION THAT WE ARE
GIVEN.
IT'S A DIFFERENT NEIGHBORHOOD,
DIFFERENT SETTING, IT'S A
DIFFERENT COMMISSION AND AND SO
THERE'S NO PRECEDENT.
IT'S ALWAYS EACH HEARING IS A
NEW BRAND NEW CASE BEFORE THE
COMMISSION.
SO YOU KNOW, A LOT OF TIMES IF
IF THERE'S SOMETHING THERE THAT
LOOKS EXACTLY WHAT YOU WANT, IT
DOESN'T MEAN YOU CAN HAVE IT.
IT IT IS IT'S JUST A NEW CASE
EVERY TIME I'M LIKE, YOU KNOW,
SUPREME COURT LAW AND STUFF
LIKE THAT.
OK, SO I MIGHT HAVE HAD A THIRD
COUNT BUT I'M NOT REMEMBERING
RIGHT NOW SO I'LL JUST SEE IF
THERE'S ANY OTHER DISCUSSION AT
THE MOMENT.
OK, SO NOW WE HAVE TO DECIDE I
THINK WHEN YOU CAN SIT DOWN FOR
SACK WE'RE GOING TO HAVE A JUST
A DISCUSSION I WOULD SAY WE
SHOULD OK, I'M SORRY YOU COMING
UP FOR PUBLIC COMMENT OR.
OH NO I'M PART OF THIS GROUP
PART OF THE GROUP.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS.
WHAT WAS IT MY MY NAME AND MY
STUFF AND I'VE BEEN HERE THIRTY
FIVE YEARS.
YOU HAVE APPROVED SIX PROJECT
THAT ARE NOT ONLY SIMILAR ON
FOURTH STREET YOU'VE APPROVED A
PROJECT THAT'S MUCH HIGHER
MARCH QUARTER YOU SET A
PRECEDENT ON DOWNTOWN THE CITY
COUNCIL WANTS MORE BUILDING.
WE'RE DOING SOMETHING GOOD
FLAVOR AND YOU ARE SAYING THAT
WHAT WE'RE DOING AFTER THE
ADDITIONAL SET BACK WHICH IS
BEYOND ANYTHING WHAT WE'RE
ASKED YOU PUSHED IT BACK WAY
BEYOND ANYTHING THAT ANYONE
ELSE HAS EVER DONE AND YOU SAY
NOW THAT YOU FIND THAT
ADDITIONAL STORY DISTURBING,
THERE ARE THREE BUILDINGS ON
MAIN STREET THAT HAVE TWO
STORIES ABOUT THERE'S A
BUILDING THAT I LIVED ON FOURTH
STREET THAT SAID THAT'S A
RIDICULOUSLY HIGH.
YOU CAN SEE THE WHOLE THING IN
FRONT OF YOU AND NOT BE ON
FORCE-FEED BEHIND OUR BUILDING.
THE SETBACKS ARE LIKE EIGHT,
TEN PEOPLE.
WE WENT BACK TO SEVENTEEN POINT
TO BE BACK AND WE'VE SHOWN
TWICE THAT YOU CAN'T YOU CAN
SEE IT SOME OF YOU DID NOT SEE
THE FIRST TIME WE DID THE
SECOND TIME.
I THINK YOU'RE BEING VERY
UNREASONABLE AND I THINK THE
COUNCIL IS NOT GOING TO LIKE
THIS KIND OF DECISION BECAUSE
THEY WANT PUBLICLY TO WANT MORE
UNITS.
WE'RE DOING A GOOD DAY'S MR.
RABBANI IS DONE BY BUILDINGS IN
DOWNTOWN.
HE DESERVES A LITTLE BIT OF A
LITTLE WE'RE NOT GETTING THAT.
WE'RE BEING PUSHED BACK EVEN
FURTHER.
I JUST THINK YOU'RE BEING
UNREASONABLE.
I THINK YOU SHOULD WHAT IT'S
GOING TO VERY BAD FOR YOU WITH
THE COUNCIL WHAT YOU'RE DOING
TO MR. CLOSE IS VERY BAD AND
OTHER PEOPLE DON'T WANT TO COME
INTO THIS TOWN ARE GOING TO
LOOK AT THIS IS WALKING THROUGH
BROKEN GLASS TO DO SOMETHING.
YOU'RE BEING VERY REASONABLE.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU, STEFAN.
OK, IS THERE ANY OTHER COMMENT
HERE FROM THE OK, VERY GOOD.
I GUESS SAYING WAS WE HAVE TO
FIGURE OUT WHETHER OR NOT WE'RE
GOING TO POSTPONE OR GO TO A
VOTE AND IT JUST SEEMS LIKE
WHAT THE COMMENTS THAT I WAS
HEARING ARE REALLY LOOKING TO
SEE SOMETHING THAT'S
SIGNIFICANTLY DIFFERENT THAN
WHAT WAS PROPOSED.
IS THAT WHAT YOU WERE HEARING
AS WELL OR HOW DO I DECIDE NOW
WHETHER TO POSTPONE OR TO VOTE
BECAUSE I DON'T KNOW WHERE YOU
GUYS FALL YET.
YOU HEARD A LOT OF COMMENTS.
OK, WELL LET'S TALK ABOUT IT
MORE THEN.
I THINK YOU NEED TO PROBABLY
MAKE A MOTION THAT YOU CAN
DISCUSS.
YEAH, VERY GOOD.
WE'RE KIND OF OFF SCRIPT HERE.
OK, LET'S ONE MOMENT PLEASE.
OK,
ALL RIGHT.
SO THAT WAS RIGHT.
WE HAD THE PUBLIC HEARING AND
NOW YEAH LET'S MAKE A MOTION
AND THEN WE CAN DISCUSS THE
MOTION.
SO DO ANY COMMISSIONER WOULD
ANY COMMISSIONER LIKE TO MAKE A
MOTION COMMISSIONER PLEASE I
MOVE THAT THE COMMISSION ISSUE
A CERTIFICATE
OF APPROPRIATENESS FOR THE
APPLICATION AT TWO 15 TO 17 S
MAIN STREET CONTRIBUTING
PROPERTY IN THE MAIN STREET
HISTORIC DISTRICT TO DEMOLISH
ALL BUT THE FRONT FACADE AND
SIDEWALLS OF THE EXISTING
BUILDING AND CONSTRUCT A NEW
FIVE STORY BUILDING WITHIN
THOSE THREE WALLS WHILE
SALVAGED BRICK BY USING
SALVAGED BRICK FROM THE REAR
OF THE BUILDING TO CLUB NO
THAT'S SORRY THIS IS A MOTION
THAT WENT WITH THE ORIGINAL
DRAWINGS.
I'M SORRY I DON'T HAVE THE
LATEST I DIDN'T REWRITE OH SO I
READ IT AS YOU CAN EITHER READ
IT AS IS OR WE CAN CHANGE IT
LATER OR YOU CAN WORK AND HAVE
SOME DISCUSSION OR YOU CAN
CHANGE IT NOW YOU OR YOU CAN
CHANGE IT NOW IF IT'S CLEAR
ENOUGH HOW TO CHANGE IT IF NOT
WE CAN WE CAN ALL TAKE A LOOK
AT IT TOGETHER.
I'LL CONTINUE AS OK WHILE USING
SALVAGED BRICK FROM THE REAR
OF THE BUILDING TO COLLAPSE
THREE FLOORS OF THE NEW REAR
ELEVATIONS AS PROPOSED
THE WORK
IS COMPATIBLE AN EXTERIOR
DESIGN ARRANGEMENT TEXTURE
MATERIAL IN RELATIONSHIP TO THE
REST OF THE BUILDING AND THE
SURROUNDING AREA AND IT'S ANN
ARBOR HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES ESPECIALLY FOR
ADDITIONS TO COMMERCIAL
BUILDINGS, NEW CONSTRUCTION AND
THE SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR
STANDARDS FOR REHABILITATION
AND GUIDELINES FOR
REHABILITATING HISTORIC
BUILDINGS IN PARTICULAR
STANDARDS ONE TWO FIVE SIX NINE
AND TEN AND THE GUIDELINES FOR
ALTERATIONS ADDITIONS FOR NEW
USE ADDITIONS DISTRICT OR
NEIGHBORHOOD SETTING BUILDING
SITE MASONRY AND SETTING VERY
GOOD.
IS SOMEONE GOING TO SECOND THE
SECOND OK THAT IS MOVE BY
COMMISSIONER AKIHIRO SECONDED
COMMISSIONER ROSS.
SO NOW WE'LL HAVE SOME
DISCUSSION ON THE MOTION AND
AFTER THAT DISCUSSION I THINK
THEN WE'LL DECIDE WHETHER OR
NOT IT MAKES SENSE TO POSTPONE
AND THE REASON WE'RE POSTPONING
WOULD BE FOR THE INFORMATION
THAT WE'RE REQUIRING THAT MISS
THATCHER HAS ALREADY DETAILED
OR THE REASON WE WOULD VOTE
WOULD BE BECAUSE WE JUST WOULD
APPROVE IT AS IS OR DENY AS IS
AND THEN IT WOULD REQUIRE A
SIGNIFICANT CHANGE TO TO
REAPPLY.
OK, SO I DID REMEMBER THE THIRD
THING THAT WAS ON MY LIST AND
SO I'LL JUST SAY THAT NOW AND
AND THAT WAS WHEN WHEN THIS WAS
LAST PROPOSED IT WAS
RECOMMENDED BY THE COMMISSION
THAT IT WOULD BE REALLY
BENEFICIAL FOR THE PROJECT TO
HIRE SOMEONE WHO'S AN EXPERT IN
HISTORIC PRESERVATION BECAUSE
WE RECOGNIZE THIS IS AN
INCREDIBLE BUILDING AND A VERY
DIFFICULT PROJECT AND THERE IS
AS HAS BEEN SAID TONIGHT, A LOT
OF MONEY ON THE LINE AND REALLY
COULD BE INCREDIBLE.
BUT BECAUSE THE COMPLICATION
THERE'S THERE STRUCTURAL
COMPLICATIONS.
THERE'S THE CODE .
THERE'S JUST A LOT GOING ON.
THERE'S ALSO THE HISTORIC
DISTRICT STANDARDS THAT NEED TO
BE MET FOR THIS PROJECT AND
THERE'S EXPERTS THERE'S SEVERAL
IN ANN ARBOR AND SEVERAL IN THE
SOUTHEAST MICHIGAN AREA THAT
ARE WORLD CLASS EXPERTS IN
HISTORIC PRESERVATION THAT
REALLY UNDERSTAND THE STANDARDS
.
AND I THINK I'M JUST GOING TO
REPEAT IT AGAIN.
WHAT I SAID THERE WHAT THE
COMMISSION PROPOSED LAST TIME
WHICH WAS I THINK THIS THIS
PROJECT COULD REALLY BENEFIT
FROM FROM SOMEONE WITH STRONG
EXPERTIZE IN HISTORIC
PRESERVATION THAT KNOWS HOW TO
REALLY YOU KNOW, CREATIVELY
MEET THE CODES IN A WAY THAT IS
BENEFICIAL TO THE CLIENT.
SO NOW LET'S JUST OK SO I GUESS
FOR ME I'LL SUMMARIZE WHERE I
STAND.
I THINK THE FOR THIS PROJECT TO
ME THE STANDARDS THERE IS SOME
WORK ON THE ALLEY SIDE THAT'S
BEEN DISCUSSED THE I THINK FOR
ME THE CRITICAL THING ON THE
SIDE IS JUST THAT YOU CAN
VISUALLY UNDERSTAND WHERE THE
HISTORIC BUILDING WAS IS AND
WHAT THE WHERE THE NEW BUILDING
IS.
SO SO TO ME DIFFERENTIATION IS
THE MOST IMPORTANT THING ON THE
ALLEY SIDE I'M NOT AS CONCERNED
ABOUT COMPATIBILITY BECAUSE
WHAT YOU'RE SHOWING LOOKS VERY
COMPATIBLE TO WHAT IS THERE.
I AM CONCERNED WITH
COMPATIBILITY ON THE MAIN
STREET SIDE.
WHAT WHAT I'M SEEING THERE IS
NOT COMPATIBLE WITH THE
HISTORIC SETTING OF MAIN STREET
ACCORDING TO THE STANDARDS.
SO LET'S LET'S JUST TAKE THAT
AS AS A KIND OF A STARTING OFF
POINT AND LET'S KIND OF HERE
WHERE WE STAND, OK?
YEAH, I I AGREE WITH WHAT WAS
SAID.
I ALSO JUST HAD A CLARIFICATION
QUESTION FOR JOE.
SO THE IF WE PROCEEDED WITH
POSTPONING THAT WOULD BE JUST
TO BASICALLY FILL IN THE HOLES
IN AN APPLICATION THAT YOU HAD
KIND OF LISTED WOULDN'T BE TO
MAKE SIGNIFICANT CHANGES THAT
WOULD BE OR IS THERE THAT WOULD
BE THE CLEANER WAY TO DO IT.
BUT IF THERE ARE CHANGES THAT
THE COMMISSION WANTS TO SEE
THAT CAN BE MADE, IT'S NOT
UNPRECEDENTED TO HAVE THOSE
CHANGES MADE BETWEEN MEETINGS
LIKE SAY THERE WAS SOME CHANGE
TO THE MAINSTREAM ELEVATION'S I
GUESS THAT'S I GUESS THAT'S UP
TO YOU GUYS.
I MEAN FOR THERE YEAH.
I JUST I KNOW IF YOU NEED A
REASON TO POSTPONE AND YOU NEED
TO BE CLEAR ABOUT WHAT IT IS
THAT YOU'RE ASKING FOR ON THE
POSTPONEMENT BUT WHAT WHAT YOU
WANT TO ASK FOR US AND UP TO
YOU.
HMM.
OK, JUST FOR CLARITY SO IF THE
POSTPONEMENT WAS JUST AROUND
THIS MISSING INFORMATION BUT
THEN THE APPLICANT BUILDING THE
WHOLE CAME BACK HOLTH CAME BACK
NEXT MONTH AND WE WERE WE
DENIED BECAUSE OF THAT BECAUSE
OF THE HIGH SITUATION.
YOU'RE SAYING THAT THAT'S NOT
THAT IF WE FEEL LIKE WE WANT TO
DENY IT FOR THESE MORE KIND
OF INTRINSIC ISSUES, IT SHOULD
JUST BE STRAIGHT UP THEN I KNOW
IT WELL, I'M NOT YEAH I GUESS I
MEAN YOU DON'T WANT TO STRING
THE APPLICANTS ALONG AND MAKE
THEM MAKE MORE CHANGES.
YOU KNOW, IF YOU KNOW THAT
YOU'RE NOT GOING TO VOTE FOR
THE APPLICATION BASED ON OTHER
FACTORS THAN THE
CLARIFICATION'S RIGHT NOW THAT
I'VE ASKED FOR YOU KNOW, THINK
DO YOU HAVE ANYTHING TO ADD TO
TO WORK HERE?
SO ALL OF THE CLARIFICATIONS
HAD TO DO WITH THE REAR AREA.
RACHEL MATERIALS.
YES.
CHANGING THE WORK SHEETS, THE
THE WORDING ON THE BACK WALL
IT'S GOING TO BE KEPT AND ALL
THAT.
YEAH, RIGHT.
SO ALL OF THOSE THINGS HAVE TO
DO WITH THAT.
NONE OF THAT HAD TO DO WITH THE
HEIGHT OF THAT TWO STORY.
AND HOW DO YOU FEEL ABOUT THAT
?
I'M I'M STILL CONFUSED ABOUT
WHAT SEEMS TO ME TO BE
CONFLICTING INFORMATION ABOUT
WHAT'S GOING TO BE SEEN.
OK, YOU KNOW HOW MUCH OF THAT
IS GOING TO BE SEEN FROM THE
STREET?
WELL, I GUESS I'M RELYING ON
THE PICTURE THE ONE PICTURE
THAT'S OVERWHELMING BUT THERE'S
OTHER EVIDENCE THAT SHOWS IT'S
NOT GOING TO BE THAT PROMINENT
SO I'M CONFUSED ABOUT THAT.
SO MORE EVIDENCE AROUND HOW
THAT'S REALLY GOING TO READ
FROM THE STREET.
YOU'RE REFERRING TO THE THE
FLAG BECAUSE WE DIDN'T SEE THE
FLAG.
YEAH, NO, I THINK THAT'S A
REALLY COMPELLING POINT BECAUSE
I MEAN OBVIOUSLY THE CRUX
OF THE BISCUIT OR THE ISSUE IS
WHAT ARE WE GOING TO SEE AND IF
WE HAD A CLEAR 100 PERCENT
UNDERSTANDING WHAT'S GOING ON
AND IT WAS REALLY JUST MINIMAL
OK BUT YOU KNOW, I MEAN SEEING
A FLAG FROM A LITTLE TINY YEAH.
I DON'T KNOW IF WE DIDN'T SEE
IT JUST BECAUSE IT'S A LITTLE
TINY PLOT LIKE I DON'T KNOW OR
DID WE JUST LIKE HONESTLY IT IS
TOUCHING IT.
YEAH.
SO I, I THINK WE DIDN'T SEE IT
BECAUSE IT'S A LITTLE TINY
FLAG.
YEAH.
A FACADE WITH WINDOWS AND
REFLECTIVE SURFACES AND IT'S AN
ENTIRE IS ALREADY SEE THE VIDEO
ONE MORE TIME.
YEAH I THINK I DON'T KNOW IF I
NEED TO BUT YEAH LET'S LET'S
SEE IT ONE MORE TIME OK BECAUSE
THAT REALLY SEEMS TO BE
OBVIOUSLY THE YEAH.
HANGING YEAH YEAH IT IS A
BECAUSE WE HAVE TREES THERE
COULD BE BEHIND A TREE AND I
DON'T EVEN FROM THAT VIEW IS
THAT I MEAN I'M LIKE I THINK I
SAW IT BUT I DON'T BECAME
DRONES RIGHT THERE.
YEAH LIKE LIKE OK KEEP GOING
KEEP GOING.
WHERE IS IT FROM HERE WE'RE
GOING TO SEE SOMETHING
DIFFERENT.
YEAH THAT LIKE IS ZOOMING
ACROSS THE CHANNEL THE LIKE
THAT WHERE YOU PUT YOUR CURSOR
ON A FLAG ONE MORE DAY ONE MORE
THING WHAT IF YOU NEED TO CALL
IT FROM BLACK TO WHITE WAS LESS
DOMINANT ON TOP BUT THEN WE GOT
TO TURN THAT INTO THE
COMPLEXION OF THE COLORS.
WOULD THAT BE MORE PALATABLE?
THIS ISN'T LIKE THE TIME TO
DESIGN THE THE BUILDING SO
WE'RE JUST GOING OFF WHAT'S
PROPOSED HERE.
IT'S AN INTERESTING QUESTION.
I THINK THAT COMPROMISE CAN
REACH WHAT'S TO COMPROMISE CAN
REACH A SOLUTION THAT WOULD
BENEFIT BOTH OF US.
YOU HAVE SOME RECOMMENDATIONS?
I THINK THAT MY RECOMMENDATION
WAS TO HIRE HISTORIC
PRESERVATION PROFESSIONAL THAT
HAS YOU KNOW, EXPERTIZE IN THIS
EXACT THING I UNDERSTAND YOU
WOULD BE OF EXTREME HELP TO
THIS PROJECT.
IT'S CLEAR TO ME NOW.
OK, VERY COOL.
THANK YOU.
OK, I MEAN FROM FROM WHAT I'M
HEARING HERE AT LEAST A
MAJORITY OF THE COMMISSIONERS
ARE REALLY THINKING THAT THIS
PROJECT NEEDS WHAT I THINK
WOULD BE SIGNIFICANT CHANGES
AND SO IT SEEMS TO ME THAT'S
LIKE THE CLEAREST COMMUNICATION
TO THE APPLICANT WOULD BE TO
VOTE ON THIS.
BUT MISS OR WHAT ARE YOU
HEARING OTHER THINGS OR CAN CAN
YOU RECOMMEND HOW TO PROCEED
HERE?
SHOULD I JUST
JUST MAKE A
DECISION?
I THINK I HATE FOR YOU TO VOTE
ON A MOTION THAT DOESN'T ALIGN
WITH THE APPLICATION.
OH, OK.
SO WE NEED TO ALIGN THE
APPLICATION AT A MINIMUM.
OK BEFORE YOU VOTE ON IT, IF
SOMEBODY WANTS TO PROPOSE A
MOTION TO POSTPONE YOU KNOW
THEY CAN DO THAT AT ANY TIME
BUT OTHERWISE YOU'RE JUST
WORKING ON THE MOTION.
WE'RE JUST WORKING ON THE
MOTION.
VERY GOOD.
OK, THANKS FOR THAT
CLARIFICATION THERE.
I'M NOT HEARING ANY ANY MOTIONS
TO POSTPONE SO LET'S FIX THE
MOTION AND CAN WE JUST SAY AS
PROPOSED LIKE JUST SCRATCH OFF
EVERY LITTLE DETAIL IN THERE
AND JUST SAY THAT IS BUT I
THINK RIGHT NOW DOESN'T THIS
DOES MATCH WHAT'S PROPOSED
BECAUSE ALL OF THE STUFF THAT
WE'VE YOU KNOW, WE'VE TALKED
ABOUT THE CHANGES LIKE KEEPING
THE TWO STOREY BACK WALL ON THE
ALIBIING.
THAT'S THAT'S NOT IN THE
PROPOSAL RIGHT.
WELL, THAT WAS WHAT IS IN FRONT
OF US SO ANY ANYTHING THAT WAS
ANY CHANGES THAT WERE MADE ON
SITE I DON'T THINK ARE VALID.
RIGHT.
THIS DISCUSSION IF WE CHANGE
THE MOTION WE CAN'T SAY HAS
PROPOSED OK, WHAT CAN WE SAY?
DO YOU KNOW?
WELL, I THINK WE CAN SAY
SOMETHING LIKE I MEAN WE CAN
KIND OF GO THROUGH THE THINGS
THAT WE TALKED ABOUT ON SITE
WHICH WAS THE IT'S NOT THAT
THEY'RE GOING TO DEMOLISH ALL
OF THE BACK WALLS THAT ONE
BRICK WALL WAS GOING TO BE
RETAINED AND ALL THE OPENINGS
ARE GOING BE RETAINED.
WERE ANY OF THOSE CHANGES
DOCUMENTED ANYWHERE?
THAT'S WHERE I DON'T IF NOT,
THEN HOW CAN WE PUT THEM IN THE
MOTION?
I DON'T THINK THAT'S WHAT I'M I
DON'T THINK THOSE CHANGES ARE
VALID AT ALL TO THE DISCUSSION
BECAUSE THEY'RE NOT DOCUMENTED
BEFORE US.
OK, SO THEN SO ON THE MOTION
ACTUALLY THEN THE WAY THIS IS
WRITTEN NOW IS AS PROPOSED BUT
IT'S IT'S NOT BECAUSE THEY
SUBMITTED NEW DRAWINGS.
OH SO SO CAN WE JUST REFERENCE
THE NEW DRAWINGS?
YES BECAUSE I NEVER SAW THE NEW
DRAWINGS BUT BUT THERE IS THERE
IN THE SLIDESHOW THAT WE'VE
BEEN LOOKING AT THERE IS A NEW
DIRECTION BUT THEY DIDN'T SHOW
THE NEW OPENING OR THE IT
DIDN'T SHOW THE OPENINGS
CORRECTLY SO THAT COULD BE A
CONDITION OF THE MOTION.
CAN YOU CHANGE?
CAN YOU DO YOU WANT TO GIVE ME
ONE MINUTE HERE?
YEAH.
AND YOU CAN KEEP DISCUSSING AND
I'LL MAKE A COUPLE OF CHANGES
TO THIS MOTION AND THEN YOU CAN
DECIDE IF YOU WANT TO RAISE
THAT.
OK, YEAH I WANT TO KEEP TALKING
HERE.
I'M GOING TO GET REALLY
SELF-CONSCIOUS.
WELL I DON'T KNOW.
WE'VE TALKED A LOT.
I DON'T KNOW IF ANYONE NEEDS TO
HEAR MORE OF OUR TALKING BUT
ARE THERE ANY COMMENTS IF YOU
GO BACK IN AND
DOES ANYONE HAVE
ANY COMMENTS ON THE COLOR
OF THE FACADE?
DO YOU THINK THAT WILL MAKE A
DIFFERENCE AT ALL TO ANYONE?
I DON'T THINK IT WOULD MAKE A
SIGNIFICANT DIFFERENCE.
YEAH, THE FORM THAT'S BEING
USED RIGHT.
I THINK THE THE LOOMING QUALITY
OF THE ADDITION DOES NOT CHANGE
BASED ON THE COLOR THAT IT'S
CLAD IN WINDOWS ARE GOING TO BE
BLACK.
THE WINDOWS ARE GOING TO BE THE
WINDOWS NO MATTER WHAT EXACTLY
MAYSAM, DO YOU REMEMBER WHEN
YOU EMAILED ME THOSE NEW
DRAWINGS?
WAS IT TUESDAY OR WEDNESDAY THE
LATEST DRAWING?
YEAH, DID YOU SEND THEM TO ME
ON WEDNESDAY?
YES.
OK YESTERDAY OK SO THAT'S TEN
ELEVEN.
THANK YOU.
I HAVE BOUGHT A THAT'S OK I
JUST NEEDED THE DATA
OK.
A NEW MOTION HAS BEEN CRAFTED
LET'S TRY THIS OK SO IF YOU
LIKE IT I'M ONLY PROPOSING
THREE THAT QUICKLY WHEN I READ
IT OUT LOUD I KNOW I'LL
CRITIQUE IT AT ONCE ALL RIGHT
OK I MOVE THAT THE COMMISSION
IS A SORT OF APPROPRIATENESS
FOR THE APPLICATION AT TWO 15
TO 17 S MAIN STREET A
CONTRIBUTING PROPERTY IN THE
MAIN STREET HISTORIC DISTRICT
TO DEMOLISH ALL BUT THE FRONT
FACADE AND SIDEWALLS AND E TWO
STOREY WALL OF THE EXISTING
BUILDING AND CONSTRUCT A NEW
FIVE STORY BUILDING WITHIN
THOSE THREE WALLS WHILE USING
SALVAGED BRICK FROM THE REAR
OF THE BUILDING TO CLAD THE
THREE FLOORS.
NOPE NOPE NOT STRIKE THAT
SALVAGING THE BRICK WALL USING
NEW BRICK
OK BECAUSE IT'S OH I
SEE AND THE WORD
OK STRIKE THAT
YOU CONSTRUCT A NEW FIVE STORY
BUILDING WITHIN THOSE WALLS ON
THE FOLLOWING CONDITIONS THAT
THE TWO STOREY EAST ELEVATION
ON THE ALLEY IS RETAINED IN ITS
CURRENT FORM THAT THE NEW REAR
ADDITIONS ARE DIFFERENTIATED BY
MATERIALS AND THAT FINAL
DRAWINGS ARE APPROVED BY STAFF
FOR CONSISTENT WITH THESE
CONDITIONS AND THE LIST
OF ADDITIONAL REQUIRED
INFORMATION PRESENTED BY STAFF
IN THE OCTOBER 12TH
PRESENTATION.
FURTHER, THE REFERENCE DRAWINGS
WERE RECEIVED BY STAFF ON
OCTOBER ELEVENTH TWENTY TWENTY
THREE AS CONDITIONS THE WORK IS
COMPATIBLE IN EXTERIOR DESIGN
ARRANGEMENT TEXTURE MATERIAL
AND RELATIONSHIP TO THE REST
OF THE BUILDING AND THE
SURROUNDING AREA AND ARNAB
HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES ESPECIALLY FOR
ADDITIONS TO COMMERCIAL
BUILDINGS, NEW CONSTRUCTION AND
THE SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR
STANDARDS FOR REHABILITATION
AND GUIDELINES FOR
REHABILITATING HISTORIC
BUILDINGS IN PARTICULAR
STANDARDS ONE TWO FIVE SIX NINE
AND TEN AND THE GUIDELINES FOR
ALTERATIONS AND ADDITIONS FOR A
NEW USE ADDITIONS DISTRICT OR
NEIGHBORHOOD SETTING BUILDING
SITE MASONRY AND SETTING IS
THERE A SECOND SECOND OK THAT
IS MOVED BY COMMISSIONER
QUIJANO SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER ROSS.
WE'VE HEARD A LOT
OF DISCUSSION.
I'LL JUST READ SOME OF MINE
AGAIN.
I THINK IT'S YOU KNOW AT THE
VERY HIGHEST LEVEL YOU KNOW
THERE'S A LOT OF DETAIL IN THE
STANDARDS BUT JUST THIS PART
OF STANDARD NINE THAT SAYS THE
NEW WORK SHALL BE
DIFFERENTIATED FROM THE OLD AND
SHALL BE COMPATIBLE WITH THE
MACING SIZE SCALE AND
ARCHITECTURAL FEATURES TO
PROTECT THE HISTORIC INTEGRITY
OF THE PROPERTY AND ITS
ENVIRONMENT AND I THINK THE KEY
ON THE ALLEY SIDE IS IS TO
DIFFERENTIATE FROM THE OLD AND
THEN THE KEY ON THE ON THE MAIN
STREET SIDE IS IS SOMEHOW
PROTECTING THE HISTORIC
INTEGRITY OF THE PROPERTY AND
ITS ENVIRONMENT.
AND I THINK THAT THAT WHAT
WE'RE SEEING WITH THE FIFTH
STOREY BEING VISIBLE FROM FROM
MAIN STREET IS NOT PROTECTING
THE INTEGRITY OF THE PROPERTY
AND ITS ENVIRONMENT.
ARE THERE ANY OTHER DISCUSSION
POINTS OR HAVE WE KIND OF HEARD
IT ALL AND WE CAN VOTE ON THIS
MOTION?
OK,
SO WE'RE GOING TO VOTE ALL
THOSE IN FAVOR OF THE MOTION
PLEASE SAY YES, ALL THOSE
OPPOSED TO THE MOTION PLEASE
SAY NO, NO.
ALL RIGHT.
SO THE MOTION DOES NOT CARRY SO
THAT THE APPLICATION HAS BEEN
DENIED AND I RECOMMEND
CONTACTING CITY SIX THAT MISS
THATCHER FOR FOR HOW TO PROCEED
NEXT.
THANK YOU GENTLEMEN FOR COMING
OUT
.
OK, SO NOW WE WILL MOVE ON TO
THAT THREE THREE THIRTY ON E
AND MISS THATCHER WHEN YOU'RE
READY PLEASE
.
ALL RIGHT THREE THIRTY ON E AND
IS NOT IN THE OLD WEST SIDE
HISTORIC DISTRICT NOW WHAT IS
IT IN SECOND WHERE IS THAT
BUILDING OLD FOURTH WARD FOURTH
ONE IT'S ACROSS SPIRIT BEHIND
THE STREET YEAH YEAH OK I SAW
WHEN I PART THIS TWO STOREY
GABLE FRONT HOUSE FEATURES
WEISBORD RIM CORNER RETURNS AND
A FULL WITH FRONT PORCH THE
STREET FACING EXCUSE ME I'M SO
SORRY I'M CERTIFIED NOT
CONTAGIOUS ANYMORE BUT MY
DOCTOR STREET FACING GAMBRIL
DORMER WHICH YOU SEE HERE IN
THIS PHOTO APPEARS TO HAVE BEEN
ADDED AT SOME POINT ACCORDING
TO SANDBORN MAPS IN NINETEEN 08
A LARGE HOUSE STOOD WHERE THE
TWO HOUSES AT THREE TWENTY
SEVEN AND THREE THIRTY ONE ARE
NOW THOSE TWO HOUSES REPLACED
THE LARGE HOUSE BY 1916.
IT IS POSSIBLE I THINK IT'S
LIKELY THAT THEY WERE MOVED TO
THIS SITE FROM ELSEWHERE THAT
IS LOCATED ON THE NORTH SIDE
OF EAST AND STREET RIGHT ACROSS
THE STREET HERE THE APPLICANT
IS SEEKING FDA APPROVAL TO ADD
A SECOND FLOOR ADDITION ON TOP
OF AN EXISTING SINGLE STORY
REAR WING AND A SINGLE STORY
ADDITION BEHIND THE REAR WING.
THE WORK INCLUDES REPLACING A
NON HISTORIC SIDE DOOR,
CHANGING A WINDOW AND A DOOR ON
THE REAR PORCH.
NEW ALUMINUM STORM WINDOWS AND
INSTALLING SEVERAL BASEMENT
EGRESS WINDOWS AND SKYLIGHTS
FOR GRAVEL PARKING SPACES ARE
PROPOSED.
ALL RIGHT.
MOVING THROUGH THE PHOTOS
MAYBE
MAYBE MOVE THROUGH THE PHOTOS
.
I DIDN'T TOUCH ANYTHING.
WELL, I'M USING A MOUSE.
IT'S NOT BOG.
OH MY GOSH.
I HOPE THE MICROPHONE DIDN'T
PICK THAT UP.
THERE'S THE FRONT OF THE HOUSE.
IT IT LOOKS DECEPTIVELY
SQUISHED HERE.
IT'S A FAIRLY WIDE HOUSE AND
IT'S A FAIRLY DEEP HOUSE I
WOULD CALL IT WITHOUT THIS
GAMBRIL THAT WAS ADDED ON AT
SOME POINT THIS THIS GAMBRIL
DORMER I WOULD CALL IT, YOU
KNOW, SORT OF A GREEK REVIVAL
CLASSICAL REVIVAL ISH ESQ HOUSE
PROBABLY BUILT MUCH EARLIER
THAN I WOULD THINK THAN WHEN IT
WAS MOVED HERE.
THIS IS THE DRIVEWAY SIDE ON
THE LEFT THERE ARE SEVERAL
COSMETIC PROPOSALS IN THE
APPLICATION.
ONE IS TO REPLACE THIS DOOR,
ANOTHER THAT YOU CAN SEE HERE.
THIS PHOTO IS TO KEEP THIS DOOR
OPENING WHICH IS AN ORIGINAL
OPENING PRESUMED AND JUST FIX
IT SHUT AND THEN ADD A NEW DOOR
OPENING WHERE THIS SMALL WINDOW
IS UNDER THE COVERED SIDE PORCH
.
THIS IS MOVING FARTHER BACK ON
THE OTHER SIDE OF THE HOUSE.
THIS IS THE BACK WALL.
THIS EDITION IS PRESENT IN 1947
AERIAL PHOTOGRAPHS.
SO IT IS PRESENT TO BE FROM THE
PERIOD OF SIGNIFICANCE.
WE DON'T KNOW EXACTLY WHEN IT
WAS BUILT BUT SINCE IT'S ON
THAT AERIAL AND WE DON'T HAVE
ANY INFORMATION SAYING, YOU
KNOW, IT WAS DEFINITIVELY BUILT
IN FORTY FIVE FORTY SIX OR
FORTY SEVEN WE PRESUME IT'S PRE
FORTY FIVE SO IT'S NOT REALLY
MUCH WENT ON BUILDING LIES
DURING THE WAR ANOTHER SHOT
OF THE WHOLE SIDE OF THE HOUSE
EH UP HERE IS WHERE A DORMER IS
PROPOSED TO GO AND IT'S IT'S AN
INTERESTING FOOTPRINT THAT SORT
OF FOLLOWS AND IS SET IN FROM
THIS CURRENT ROOF STRUCTURE
WHICH YOU'LL SEE IN A MINUTE ON
THE DRAWING.
IT'S A DEEP LOT.
THERE ARE BEHIND THE THE THE
ADDITION THERE ARE FOUR PARKING
SPACES OPPOSED.
I'LL TALK ABOUT THAT MORE IN A
MINUTE.
LOOKS LIKE A BIG HOUSE FROM THE
FRONT BUT WHEN YOU KIND TO
COMPARE IT TO ITS NEIGHBORS IT
DOESN'T LOOK SO BIG ANYMORE.
THIS IS THE EAST ELEVATION
OF THE HOUSE YOU CAN SEE WELL
YOU CAN'T EXACTLY SEE WHERE THE
ORIGINAL HOUSE ENDED BUT
ACTUALLY YOU PROBABLY CAN'T SEE
THAT BECAUSE IT HAD A A OF FLAT
ROOF ADDITIONS LIKE YOU KNOW,
LIKE A SMALL ADDITION THAT YOU
SEE YOU GO DOWN HERE AND YOU
BUMP TO THE BACK A LITTLE BIT
AND THEN YOU GO DOWN AND THAT'S
WHERE THE FOUNDATION CHANGES.
THIS IS ALSO VISIBLE ON THE
OTHER SIDE WITH THESE PORCHES
THIS THIS BIT HERE PROBABLY
EXTENDED STRAIGHT ACROSS THE
BACK OF THE HOUSE.
IT WAS JUST A SHALLOW EXTENSION
LOOKING.
I'M STANDING IN THE DRIVEWAY.
THIS IS THE BACK OF THE HOUSE
WE'RE DISCUSSING LOOKING TO THE
EAST AND TO THE WEST TO THE
EAST YOU CAN SEE THAT THIS
BUILDING HAS AN ADDITION ON THE
BACK.
THIS NEW EDITION PROPOSED WOULD
EXTEND BACK A LITTLE BIT
FARTHER THAN THAT AND THIS IS
THE NEXT DOOR HOUSE.
BUT TO DOWN THIS ONE HAS A
COUPLE OF LARGER ADDITIONS AND
IT WOULD BE ON A PAR WITH THAT
ALIGNMENT.
TWO DOORS ARE PROPOSED TO BE
REPLACED NEITHER FROM THE
PERIOD OF SIGNIFICANCE.
THIS IS THE ONE THAT'S PROPOSED
TO BE FIXED SHUT.
THIS IS DEFINITELY AN OLDER
DOOR.
IT'S MORE LIKE A 50S OR 60S
IT'S IT'S PLYWOOD.
DOOR.
IT'S IT'S IT'S PRETTY FLIMSY.
IT'S IT'S PLYWOOD.
THERE'S NOTHING SPECIAL OR
IT'S IT'S IT'S PRETTY FLIMSY.
PARTICULARLY HISTORIC ABOUT IT
THERE'S NOTHING SPECIAL OR
AND THEY WOULD BOTH BE REPLACED
PARTICULARLY HISTORIC ABOUT IT
WITH A SIMPLE WOOD TO PAINT
AND THEY WOULD BOTH BE REPLACED
ACTUALLY A SIMPLE TWO PANEL
WITH A SIMPLE WOOD TO PAINT
DOOR.
ACTUALLY A SIMPLE TWO PANEL
THE MATERIAL WAS NOT SPECIFIED
DOOR.
THAT I COULD FIND ON THE
THE MATERIAL WAS NOT SPECIFIED
APPLICATION.
THAT I COULD FIND ON THE
SO WE'LL ASK ABOUT THAT IN A
APPLICATION.
MINUTE.
SO WE'LL ASK ABOUT THAT IN A
ALL RIGHT.
MINUTE.
WE'VE GOT TO ADDITIONS TO THE
ALL RIGHT.
HOUSE.
WE'VE GOT TO ADDITIONS TO THE
ONE IS THIS THIS NEW HIPPED
HOUSE.
DORMER OF A SORT THAT SITS ON
ONE IS THIS THIS NEW HIPPED
TOP OF THE REAR FLAT ROOF
DORMER OF A SORT THAT SITS ON
EDITION.
TOP OF THE REAR FLAT ROOF
YOU CAN SEE THAT IT FOLLOWS THE
EDITION.
OUTLINE OF THE CURRENT ROOF AND
YOU CAN SEE THAT IT FOLLOWS THE
THEN WE'VE GOT THIS REMAINING
OUTLINE OF THE CURRENT ROOF AND
SPACE ON THE BACK AND THEN A
THEN WE'VE GOT THIS REMAINING
NEW ONE STOREY EDITION IS IS
SPACE ON THE BACK AND THEN A
ATTACHED TO THE REAR OF THE
NEW ONE STOREY EDITION IS IS
CURRENT REAR WING, THE
LET'S
SAY THAT THERE ISN'T ANY SET
OF I BELIEVE SIX INCHES AND
EITHER SIDE I THOUGHT IT WAS ON
THE STRING BUT IT MUST BE ON A
DIFFERENT ONE.
WE'VE GOT A COUPLE OF NEW
CONDENSERS HERE.
WE'VE GOT SOME NEW LANDSCAPING.
THERE'S A NEW EGRESS WINDOW
WELL ON THE BACK THE ADDITION
AND THEN FOR PARKING SPACES ARE
SHOWN AT THE STAFF AT UP REVIEW
COMMITTEE VISIT THERE WAS
EARLIER A RAIN GARDEN PROPOSED
HERE.
I'M CONCERNED THAT THIS ENTIRE
LOT IS TAKEN UP EXCEPT FOR THIS
LITTLE PIECE OF GRASS IN THE
FRONT WITH NARY A PLACE TO PUT
OUT A FOLDING CHAIR AND A
FIREPIT AND WAS SUGGESTING THAT
THEY LOSE A PARKING SPACE OR
MAKE THE RAIN GARDEN AREA MORE
USABLE.
I'M NOT SURE I'M CRAZY ABOUT
JUST TAKING THE RAIN GARDEN OUT
BECAUSE IT'S JUST IT'S IT'S NOT
REALLY A WIDE ENOUGH SPACE TO
USE AND WHO'S GOING TO WANT TO
SIT IN FRONT OF THEIR CARS AND
HAVE THAT FIRE PIT SO THE CARS
BEHIND IT?
YEAH, EXACTLY.
EXACTLY.
SO THAT'S THAT'S THAT'S
SOMETHING THAT I WOULD LIKE FOR
YOU ALL TO DISCUSS.
OK, A COUPLE OF DRAWINGS
OF WHAT THIS WOULD LOOK LIKE
FROM THE STREET YOU CAN SEE
HERE THIS IS A LITTLE BIT
OF 2ND FLOOR ADDITION GOING
DOWN THE BACK AND THEN THIS IS
THE ONE STOREY ADDITION BEHIND
BACK HERE YOU REALLY ONLY SEE A
LITTLE BIT OF THE OF THE ONE
STORY ADDITION ON THE BACK AND
I DON'T BELIEVE YOU SEE ANY
OF THE SECOND FLOOR ADDITIONS.
IT IS INSET ON THAT BACK CORNER
IT IT LOOKS I THINK IN THESE
DRAWINGS LIKE A LOT
OF ADDITIONS IT IS AT 50
PERCENT WHICH MEETS OUR
STANDARDS AND GUIDELINES SINCE
THAT WHOLE ONE STORY WING ON
THE BACK IS FROM THE PERIOD
OF SIGNIFICANCE IT MAKES THE
WHOLE FOOTPRINT OF THE HOUSE
SIGNIFICANTLY LARGER WHICH
MEANS ANY ADDITIONS, YOU KNOW,
IS GOING TO HAVE A LARGER
POSSIBLE FOOTPRINT AND BY
PILING SOME OF IT, YOU KNOW,
BEHIND THE HOUSE ON THE SECOND
FLOOR, THEY'VE THEY'VE I THINK
VERY EFFICIENTLY HIDDEN SOME
OF THAT RATHER THAN TRYING TO
JUST PUT A LARGER TWO STOREY
ADDITION ON THIS THAT MAYBE
WRAPS AROUND THE BACK OR
SOMETHING.
I DO LIKE THAT THERE IS SOME
DELINEATION BETWEEN THE OLD AND
THE NEW THAT IT'S STILL VERY
VISIBLE
.
I MENTIONED THAT THERE'S
THERE'S A DOUBLE WITH EGRESS.
WELL, ON THE BACK HERE THERE'S
ALSO A AN EGRESS WINDOW WELL ON
THE SIDE WHICH IS NEAR THE
PORCH THIS IS THE BASEMENT.
SO WHEN YOU GET TO THE PORCH
LEVEL YEAH HERE IT IS HERE.
SO THERE WOULD HAVE TO BE SOME
SORT OF A GUARDRAIL HERE I
THINK WHICH IS FINE TO KEEP
PEOPLE FROM STUMBLING DOWN THE
STAIRS AND TUMBLING INTO THE
WELL.
YOU CAN SEE THAT THE ADDITION
ON THE BACK ADDS TWO BATHROOMS
AND I'M SORRY TWO BEDROOMS AND
A BATHROOM AND A STARE DOWN TO
THE BASEMENT.
THE BASEMENT IS BEING
RECAPTURED AS PART OF THIS
PROJECT.
THIS IS THE BASEMENT LEVEL.
WE'VE GOT OUR OUR TWO NEW
BEDROOMS AND THIS IS THAT NEW
STAIRWELL GOING DOWN AND THEN
THIS IS THE RECLAIMED PART, NOT
EACH OTHER'S BASEMENT THERE NOW
NO.
IF THERE'S NOT EXISTING
CONCRETE FOUNDATION WALLS TO BE
DEMOLISHED.
YEAH.
SO THEY'RE REPLACING THESE
THESE BASEMENT WALLS ON THE
BACK.
WE PROPOSED LEVEL TWO YOU SEE
UP HERE IT'S PRETTY MODEST, HAS
A COUPLE OF BATHROOMS AND MAKES
THESE BEDROOMS OF HABITABLE
SIZE ROOF PLAN LOTS OF HIP'S, A
COUPLE OF SKYLIGHTS BUT THERE
ARE FOUR SKYLIGHTS BUT THEY'RE
ALL ON THE NEW ROOF SURFACES.
THE TOP IS THE PROPOSED THE THE
BOTTOM IS THE EXISTING THESE
WINDOWS LOOK LIKE THEY'RE ALL
CASEMENT'S THAT ARE PROPOSED ON
THE ADDITIONS.
A COUPLE AWNINGS PUT A LOT IN
THERE.
YEAH, A LITTLE ONES UP HERE ON
TOP TOO WITH CASEMENT'S OF THE
SIZE I'M ALWAYS A FAN OF FALSE
ONES ACROSS THE MIDDLE JUST TO
MAKE THEM LOOK A LITTLE MORE
DOUBLELINE BUT THIS IS PRETTY
FAR BACK ON THE HOUSE AND THESE
AREN'T GOING TO BE VISIBLE FROM
THE STREET.
SO IT'S NOT SOMETHING THAT I
THINK IS IS SUPERCRITICAL IN
THE BACK OF THE HOUSE AND THE
SECOND FLOOR THAT HAS THREE
WINDOWS THAT WOULD BE REMOVED
LOST TO THIS EDITION.
THEY I BELIEVE THAT THEY ARE
ALL FROM THE PERIOD
OF SIGNIFICANT COUPLE OF CROSS
SECTION SECTIONS SO THAT YOU
CAN UNDERSTAND BETTER WHAT'S
GOING ON.
THERE IS A HELPFUL WINDOW
SCHEDULE THE DEMO WINDOWS.
THERE ARE FIVE OF THEM THREE ON
THAT SECOND FLOOR, ONE BY THE
BACK DOOR AND I'M NOT SURE
WHERE THE OTHER ONE IS ALL THE
NEW PROPOSED WINDOWS ARE IT
SAYS SOMEWHERE AND I THINK I
PUT IT IN THE STAFF REPORT
THOUGH I DON'T THINK IT'S IN
THE WINDOW TABLE.
WHAT MATERIAL ARE I THINK
THEY'RE CLAD WHAT WOULD FBC
WITH NEW DOORS VERY SIMPLE BUT
THE MATERIALS AREN'T SPECIFIED
SO I'M CURIOUS TO KNOW WHAT
THAT WOULD BE.
WE'VE GOT ASPHALT SHINGLES.
WE'VE GOT METAL HANDRAILS
SEMIOTICIAN SIX INCH SIDING AND
THERE WAS A LAST MINUTE
ADDITION SORRY THIS JUST
HAPPENED YESTERDAY OR THE END
AS PART OF THIS DRAWING A
COMPOSITE FENCE IS NOW PROPOSED
.
MY FIRST INCLINATION WHEN
SOMETHING LIKE THAT POPS UP
SAYS JUST SAY NO, YOU'VE GOT TO
GET A LATER BUT THEY'RE
PROPOSING A COMPOSITE FENCE AND
I CAN'T APPROVE A COMPOSITE
FENCE.
I CAN ONLY GIVE A WORD OR
SOMETIMES CHAIN LINK OR METAL
BUT COMPOSITED FENCES ARE NEW
SO IT IS SHOWN HERE IT'S METAL
FRAME WITH COMPOSITE BOARDS.
WE DON'T KNOW THE COLOR, WE
DON'T KNOW THE HEIGHT.
SO I STILL THINK IT SHOULD GET
A STAFF APPROVAL.
BUT I WOULD LIKE TO HEAR YOUR
THOUGHTS ON WHETHER SUCH A
COMPOSITE FENCE WOULD BE
APPROPRIATE.
WE'RE ALSO GOING TO TALK ABOUT
THIS EXACT SAME FENCE ON OUR
NEXT APPLICATION.
OK, SO FAMILIAR.
YEAH.
OK, SECRETARY SECRETARIES',
YOUR STANDARDS I HAVE READ TWO
FIVE, NINE AND TEN TO YOU.
I HAVE READ YOU THE GUIDELINES
FOR ACTUALLY DIDN'T YOU DO THIS
ONE BUILDING SITE INTRODUCING
NEW CONSTRUCTION ONTO THE
BUILDING SITE WHICH IS VISUALLY
INCOMPATIBLE IS NOT RECOMMENDED
IN TERMS OF SIZE SCALE DESIGN
MATERIALS, COLOR AND TEXTURE OR
WHICH DESTROYS HISTORIC
RELATIONSHIPS ON THE SITE I
HAVE READ YOU THIS INFORMATION
ON ADDITIONS FROM THE SECRETARY
OF INTERIOR.
THE GUIDELINES RECOMMENDED ALSO
FOR A RUFUS'S RETAINING AND
PRESERVING ROOFS AND THEIR
FUNCTIONAL DECORATIVE FEATURES
THAT ARE IMPORTANT IN DEFINING
THE OVERALL HISTORIC CHARACTER
OF THE BUILDING.
THIS INCLUDES THE ROOF SHAPED
DECORATIVE FEATURES SUCH AS
CHIMNEYS AND ROOFING MATERIAL.
PLEASE NOTE THAT THE CHIMNEY IS
PROPOSED TO STAY IN PLACE AND
NOT BE REMOVED ON THE EXTERIOR
OF THE HOUSE.
IT'S NOT RECOMMENDED FOR
WINDOWS TO REMOVE A RADICALLY
CHANGE WINDOWS THAT ARE
IMPORTANT.
DEFINING THE START CHARACTER
OF THE BUILDING SET THE
CHARACTERS DIMINISHED AND FROM
THE INTERIOR HISTORIC DISTRICT
DESIGNS FOR ALL ADDITIONS.
THIS IS THE ONE ABOUT LIMITING
THE SIZE AND SCALE OF THE
ADDITIONS IN RELATIONSHIP TO
START BUILDING SO IT DOES NOT
DIMINISH OR VISUALLY OVERPOWER
THE BUILDING OR THE DISTRICT
AND THE ADDITIONS FOOTPRINT
SHOULD NOT EXCEED HALF OF THE
ORIGINAL BUILDING'S FOOTPRINT
OR HALF OF THE ORIGINAL
BUILDING'S TOTAL FOR AREA.
I'VE ALREADY READ YOU THE NOT
APPROPRIATE FOR ALL EDITIONS
FOR ADDITIONS TO HISTORIC
RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES
APPROPRIATE TO SEPARATE A
LARGER EDITION FROM A PRIMARY
HISTORIC STRUCTURE AND LINKED
WITH A SMALLER CONNECTING
STRUCTURE OR TO PLACE NEW WALLS
IN A DIFFERENT LANE FROM THE
HISTORIC STRUCTURE IN A
SUBORDINATE POSITION TO THE
HISTORIC FABRIC FOR LANDSCAPE
FEATURES, IT'S APPROPRIATE TO
RETAIN HISTORIC RELATIONSHIPS
BETWEEN BUILDING'S LANDSCAPE
FEATURES AND OPEN SPACES AND
IT'S NOT APPROPRIATE TO REMOVE
A RADICALLY CHANGE A WINDOW
THAT'S IMPORTANT DEFINING THE
OVERALL HISTORIC CHARACTER
OF THE PROPERTY FOR PAVED AREAS
.
IT'S APPROPRIATE TO INSTALL NEW
PARKING AREAS WHICH ARE
COMPATIBLE WITH THE SCALE AND
PROPORTION OF YARD AREA AND
CHARACTERISTICS OF THE HISTORIC
DISTRICT BEHIND BUILDINGS.
THEY SHOULD BE REVIEWED ON A
CASE BY CASE BASIS.
IT IS NOT APPROPRIATE TO
INSTALL DRIVEWAYS OR PARKING
AREAS THAT ARE TOO WIDE OR
LARGE FOR THE BUILDING SITE AND
ARE OUT OF CHARACTER FOR THE
DISTRICT.
RESIDENTIAL DOORS REPLACE THE
MISSING ORIGINAL OR NOT
ORIGINAL DOOR WITH A DESIGN
THAT MATCHES OR THAT'S
COMPATIBLE AND THAT COMPLETES
ALL OF THE STANDARDS AND
GUIDELINES.
OK, LET ME CHECK MY STAFF
REPORTER THEN WE CAN MOVE ON.
YEAH SO THE PROPOSED ADDITION
IS A FORTY PERCENT OF FORTY
SEVEN PERCENT INCREASE AND THE
FOOTPRINT IS A 50 PERCENT
INCREASE FROM GROUND LEVEL
ADDITIONS WILL HAVE A NEW ICF
FOUNDATION WALL
.
ALL RIGHT.
THAT'S IT FOR STAFF REPORT.
THANK YOU.
MUCH APPRECIATED.
AZO IS SO NOW WE'LL MOVE ON TO
THE REVIEW COMMITTEE REPORT AND
ITS COMMISSIONER FORTNER AND
COMMISSIONER QUIJANO HE GOT
CONFUSED ME THERE BUT I SAY
RIGHT KEEPING UP WITH HIM I
WOULD REITERATE WHAT JILL SAID
THAT THE IT ABOUT THIS WORK
WILL BE MINIMALLY VISIBLE ONLY
FROM THE DRIVEWAY SIDE OF THE
BUILDING AND THAT ALL OF THE
YOU KNOW, THERE ARE INSETS AT
ALL OF THE PLACES WHERE THE
ADDITION IS BEING PUT IN SO
THAT THE ORIGINAL DELINEATION
OF THE BUILDING IS MAINTAINED.
ALL THOSE THINGS THAT WOULD
GIVE YOU WITH THE SIZE AND
PASSING OF THE ORIGINAL
BUILDING WAS VERY GOOD AND
I
DON'T REALLY HAVE ANYTHING NEW
TO SAY.
THAT REPORT WAS QUITE THOROUGH.
ANY COMMENTS ON THE REAR YARD
JUST LIKE HOW BIG IT IS AND
WHAT IT FEELS LIKE BACK THERE
RIGHT NOW IT'S YOU KNOW, IT'S
KIND OF A MIX OF THESE PHOTOS
KIND OF MIX OF GRAVEL.
IT'S NOT A HARD THING BUT IT'S
ACTUALLY LIKE FREEWAY.
IT'S BEEN PARKED ON FOR DECADES
.
THAT'S ALL IT'S BEEN USED FOR.
YEAH.
AND ADJACENT TO IT IS PRETTY
MUCH ALL PARKING BACK THERE.
THE THE NEIGHBORS ITS PARKING
LOT.
YEAH I HAD A QUESTION TOO OK IS
IT THE REVIEW COMMITTEE OR IS
IT LIKE A GENERAL QUESTION OR
FOR STAFF VERSUS STAFF.
RIGHT LET'S HEAR SO BEING THE
BACK OF THE BACK YARD AND SEE
HOW FAR THE OTHER HOUSES GO,
HOW MUCH I'M CURIOUS WHAT DO
YOU THINK OF THE EXTENSION, HOW
MUCH FURTHER I WILL GO COMPARED
TO OTHER HOUSES NEXT TO IT?
IT'S IT'S PRETTY COMPATIBLE.
YOU FIND THOSE TWO PHOTOS SO
THESE ARE THE HOUSES ON EITHER
SIDE.
IT WOULD EXTEND A LITTLE BIT
FARTHER BACK THAN THE BRICK
APARTMENT BUILDING NEXT DOOR.
IT WOULD BE APPROXIMATELY LEVEL
FLUSH WITH THE HOUSE TWO DOORS
DOWN THAT BECAUSE THESE ARE
VERY DEEP ORIGINAL CITY LOTS.
I DIDN'T HAVE GREAT CONCERNS
ABOUT THE DEPTH OF THE PROPOSED
ADDITIONS.
VERY GOOD.
OK, WELL THE APPLICANT PLEASE
COME FORWARD STATE YOUR NAME
AND ADDRESS FOR THE RECORD AND
ANYTHING YOU HAVE TO ADD TO THE
STAFF REPORT OR REVIEW
COMMITTEE REPORT WOULD BE GREAT
THAT EVENING I TO SEE YOU
AGAIN.
MY NAME IS ANNA APOSHIAN.
I AM WITH
STUDIO ADDRESSES
TWENTY THREE SEVENTY THREE
DRIVE FOR OIKS.
I'M REPRESENTING OUR CLIENT
RYAN PANTALEO.
HE INTERESTINGLY HE ACTUALLY
LIVED IN THE OLD FOURTH WARD
HIMSELF.
HE LIVES ON THE STREET JUST
ACROSS THE STREET AS WELL.
HE'S ON THE FOURTH WARD
HISTORIC DISTRICT BOARD AND HE
WE RECENTLY COMPLETED
CONSTRUCTION ON A HGC APPROVED
PROJECT ON 511 EAST AND JUST
THE STREET.
SO THAT'S ALL TO SAY THAT
THERE'S AN EMPHASIS AND
INTEREST ON HIS PART AND ARE
ASSISTING HIM TO PRESERVE THE
CHARACTER OF THE NEIGHBORHOOD
TO REINVEST AND IMPROVE THE
CONDITIONS OF THESE HISTORIC
STRUCTURES AND TO TO REALLY
KIND OF REVITALIZE THESE THESE
HOUSES THAT WE'VE WORKED ON BUT
ALSO CONTINUE TO DO SO.
AND I THINK THAT IS STARTING TO
BE EVIDENT IN THE WORK THAT WAS
COMPLETED BUT ALSO DONE
ESPECIALLY WITHIN THIS
APPLICATION WHERE THE MAJORITY
OF THE WORK TO THE CONTRIBUTING
STRUCTURE IS TO PRESERVE AND
RESTORE AND RETAIN AS MUCH AS
POSSIBLE WITHIN REASON FOR THE
ADDITIONS THAT ARE PROPOSED.
AND WE'RE TRYING TO DO THAT.
I WOULD SAY WITH LIGHT TOUCHES
AND GENTLE TOUCHES AS MUCH AS
WE CAN THESE WILL BE RENTAL
PROPERTIES BUT THE INTENT IS
NOT TO HAVE, YOU KNOW, CRAM AS
MANY BEDROOMS AND AS WE CAN THE
EXISTING THREE THIRTY ONE IS
ACTUALLY SHAKINGLY ONE BEDROOM
EACH FLOOR FIRST FLOOR ONE FOR
SECOND FLOOR WHICH IS
SURPRISING GIVEN THE EXISTING
FOOTPRINT SQUARE FOOTAGE OF THE
HOUSE WE'RE PROPOSING TO DO
EIGHT BEDROOMS TOTAL THREE
BEDROOM UNIT AND THEN A FIVE
BEDROOM UNIT.
WE'D PREFER NOT TO PUT CRAM
MORE BASEMENTS IN THE BEDROOM
OR THE BEDROOMS IN THE
BASEMENTS BECAUSE THOSE ARE
LESS DESIRABLE SPACES.
SO THE AREAS THAT WE'RE
PROPOSING TO DO THE BEDROOMS,
THE BASEMENT OR ARE IN THE NEW
EDITION WHERE WE'RE ABLE TO
ACTUALLY GET A LITTLE BIT
DEEPER, HAVE LARGER SIZE WINDOW
WELLS WITH THE EXCEPTION OF THE
EXISTING ONE STORY ADDITION
PORTION WHICH IS A CRAWL SPACE
CURRENTLY WE CAN ACTUALLY
UTILIZE THAT PORTION AND DIG
DOWN DEEPER AND IT'S CURRENTLY
CONCRETE FOUNDATION WELL SO
THERE'S REALLY NO DOESN'T HAVE
SCULPTED BLOCK.
IT DOESN'T HAVE ANY KIND
OF COBBLESTONE ANYTHING.
IT WOULD BE REALLY HISTORICALLY
SIGNIFICANT.
THE GOAL FOR THESE IT IT'S IT'S
TO MARKET THESE TOWARD GRAD
STUDENTS OR YOUNG
PROFESSIONALS.
RIGHT.
SO WE WANT TO PROVIDE BEDROOMS
THAT ARE OVER ONE HUNDRED
SQUARE FEET OR CLOSE.
YOU KNOW IT BECAME A CHALLENGE
I THINK AND THIS PROJECT AND IN
THE SUBSEQUENT PROJECT BUT THEY
ARE NICE SIZE SPACES.
EACH BEDROOM GETS A BATHROOM OR
YOU HAVE TWO BEDROOMS, ONE
BATHROOM AS OPPOSED TO MULTIPLE
BEDROOMS CRAMMED IN LARGE
LIVING SPACES FOR KITCHEN AND
LIVING ROOM TO PROMOTE
GATHERING WITHIN THE HOUSE AND
BETWEEN THE THE OCCUPANTS
THEMSELVES TO ADDRESS THE
PARKING SITUATION ON THIS
PARTICULAR HOUSE THERE IS IT
HAS PARKING ON END IS DIFFICULT
AND IT HAS BEEN USED AS PARKING
FOR QUITE SOME TIME.
THE MAJORITY OF THE REAR GUARD
IS A MIXTURE OF GRAVEL AND
THAT'S JUST BEEN COMPACTED OVER
TIME.
PEOPLE I KNOW THAT PEOPLE VIEWS
OF THAT PARTICULAR HOUSE JUST
FOR PARKING FOR UP THE STREET
FOR ALL AROUND THIS AREA OF THE
CITY.
SO WE WE RECOGNIZE THAT THERE'S
BUT BEING IN THIS PARTICULAR
PARKING IS GOING TO BE AN ISSUE
FOR OCCUPANT OF THIS PARTICULAR
STRUCTURE.
SO WE ARE PROPOSING THE PARKING
SPACES.
I THINK ONE OF THEM WE HAVE
REDUCED TO A COMPACT SPACE JUST
TO TRY TO MINIMIZE EVEN MORE
THOSE PARKING WE DID HAVE A
GREEN GARDEN.
WE WILL BE REQUIRED TO DO SOME
SOME SOME INTEGRATING PERMIT
MORE WE'LL HAVE TO DEAL WITH
STORMWATER DRAIN ON DRAINAGE.
WE ACTUALLY HAVE REALLY NO
CHANGE TO IMPERVIOUS SURFACE IN
TERMS OF WHAT'S CALCULATED AS
GRAVEL VERSUS SPACE VERSUS THE
PARKING AREA.
BUT WE WOULD LIKE TO INCLUDE
MORE PLANTINGS AND KIND
OF SOFTEN THAT AREA SO I KNOW
ONE OF THE ISSUES THAT WE'VE
BROUGHT UP I THINK THAT THE
REVIEW COMMITTEE WAS THAT THE
PARKING SEEMS TO OVERHANG A
LITTLE BIT FROM THE CONCRETE
PAVING THE GRAVEL ON THE PAVING
WOULD BE FLUSH.
WE CAN MOVE THE PARKING SPACES
SLIGHTLY CLOSER TO THE EASTERN
BOUNDARY BUT THAT WOULD ALSO
REDUCE A LITTLE BIT OF THAT
GREEN STRIP THAT WOULD BE
AVAILABLE.
SO THAT'S JUST SOMETHING TO
CONSIDER.
I'M JUST THINKING IF THERE'S
ANYTHING ELSE I THINK
SPECIFICALLY LIKE I NOTED WITH
THIS, WE ARE TRYING TO REDUCE
THAT THAT SECOND STORY
FOOTPRINT BY BRINGING IT IN
SLIGHTLY BUT AGAIN TO MAKE THE
BEDROOM SPACES A LITTLE BIT
NICER.
THE FIRST FLOOR WE DID TRY TO
BRING IN THAT THE ADDITION IT
DOES MATCH THE EXISTING FIRST
FLOOR ADDITIONAL WALLS BUT
BECAUSE WE'RE REPLACING THOSE
FOUNDATION WALLS WE WANT KEEP
EVERYTHING IN NICE ALIGNMENT
AND THEN WE ARE ALLOWING THE
ADDITION WENT FURTHER BACK TO
SPREAD OUT A LITTLE BIT MORE.
SO WE'RE CREATING THAT HYPHEN
SPACE.
I DON'T THINK I HAVE ANYTHING
ELSE TO ADD AT THE MOMENT BUT I
APPRECIATE THE REPORT.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
CAN YOU COMMENT ON THE WINDOWS
PLEASE WHEN THEY WOULD PAELLA
WOULD KLATT WOULD BRADWELL
ALUMINUM CLAD WOULD.
VERY GOOD.
THANK YOU.
WHICH I THINK IT IS STATED ON
THE MATERIAL SHEET IT'S JUST
LOADED AND THEN THE COMPOSITE
FENCE WAS ADDED IN.
DO YOU HAVE ANY COMMENTS ON THE
FENCE THE IMAGE IS A PRETTY
GOOD INDICATION OF WHAT WE
WOULD LIKE TO DO.
IT'S A METAL POST WITH WHAT
LOOKS LIKE THAT.
WE DID ACTUALLY I THINK HAVE
NOTED IN TERMS OF THAT WOOD
THIS IS WHAT WOULD BE PROPOSED
IN FRONT OF THE BASEMENT WINDOW
WELLS AS THE GUARD OH SO THAT
THAT WAS ORIGINALLY IN THERE.
THE FENCE IS IS A LATER AND IT
WOULD BE SIX FEET HIGH SO
MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE HEIGHT WE'RE
OPEN TO DOING A WOOD.
WE LIKE TO KEEP THAT KIND
OF WOOD BOOK BUT SOMETHING THAT
IS NICE AND EASIER TO MAINTAIN
SO GREAT BUT SO THEN I DIDN'T
NOTICE THAT THE GUARD IS THE
SAME MATERIAL AND THE SAME
WOULD NOT BE THE SAME HEIGHT.
IT WOULD ONLY BE LIKE A THREE
FOOT HIGH GUARD WITH METAL
POSTS JUST TWO METAL POSTS ON
EITHER SIDE OK IN THE SLATS AND
HORIZONTAL WOOD SLATS WITH SOME
SORT OF OPACITY OR TRANSPARENCY
OK, ONE OTHER THING JUST ON THE
BASEMENT THE EGRESS WINDOW LS
ON THE DRIVE SIDE THERE IS
QUITE THE PROPERTY ON THE EAST
IS ABOUT A FOOT OR TWO HIGHER
AND THERE'S A LOT OF OLD
DECREPIT CONCRETE THAT'S ALONG
THAT SIDE AND THERE HAS ISSUES
WITH WATER RUNOFF INTO THE ONTO
THE PROPERTY AND INTO THE HOUSE
THAT'S CAUSING ISSUES.
SO WE WANT TO AVOID PUTTING ANY
KIND OF EGRESS WINDOW WELLS ON
THAT SIDE.
SO THAT IS WHY THEY'RE IN THE
REAR AND ON THE DRIVEWAY SIDE
BACK TO THE RAIN GARDEN.
YOU SAID THAT THERE WAS A RAIN
GARDEN THEN IT WAS TAKEN OFF
THE DRAWINGS AND THEN YOU
MENTIONED IT BUT I DIDN'T HEAR
WHAT YOU SAID AND YOU JUST
MENTIONED IT JUST I THINK THAT
WE WOULD WE DO WANT TO DO SOME
PLANTING BACK THERE BUT I DON'T
THINK WE'RE GOING TO PROPOSE A
RAIN GARDEN.
I THINK WE'LL WORK WITH OUR
GRADING TO GET WATER DRAINAGE
TOWARD THE FRONT OF THE HOUSE
AS OPPOSED TO JUST HAVING
EVERYTHING SIT IN ONE PORTION
OF THAT THAT REAR YARD BECAUSE
I THINK THE SIZE OF IT WOULD
TAKE UP THAT ENTIRE STRIP WE'RE
GOING TO BE MOSTLY PLANTING AND
PROBABLY NOT SO USABLE AND YOU
DON'T HAVE MORE THAN 200 SQUARE
FEET OF NEW IMPERVIOUS SURFACE.
SO YOU'RE NOT I DON'T BELIEVE
SO TO DO A NEW RAIN GARDEN OR
SOMETHING YOU CAN JUST USE SITE
GRADING AND THERE'S 12 FOOT
SIDE SETBACKS FOR SOME REASON.
YEAH.
SO THIS IS WHAT WE'RE THE ONLY
THING IS THAT I'VE NEVER SAID
IT IS OUR POLICY IS SO THIS IS
MOST OF THE LOTS IN THIS AREA
WERE MUCH LARGER AT ONE POINT
AND THEN THE CITY REPORTS THEM
SO THE MAJORITY OF THE LOTS IN
THIS AREA ARE NONCONFORMING IN
TERMS OF STRUCTURE AND SO THE
12 FOOT SETBACKS WE KNOW WERE
ALREADY SUBMITTED TO ZIBA TO TO
REVIEW THE SETBACKS AND THIS
ONE ONLY REQUIRES A ALTERATION
TO THE EXISTING STRUCTURE.
OK, ARE THERE ANY OTHER
QUESTIONS FOR THE APPLICANT
DOESN'T LOOK LIKE IT.
SO WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON TO
THE PUBLIC HEARING RIGHT NOW.
I'D LIKE TO OPEN THE PUBLIC
HEARING FOR THIS ITEM.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES ABOUT THIS
APPLICATION AT THREE THREE ONE
E AND SO NOW IS THE TIME WHERE
YOU WOULD PRESS STAR NINE ON
YOUR PHONE.
BUT WE DON'T HAVE ANYONE AND
THERE'S NO ONE PRESENT HERE.
SO WE WILL CLOSE THE PUBLIC
HEARING AND I'LL ASK A
COMMISSIONER TO PLEASE MAKE A
MOTION ANYONE WOULD LIKE TO
MAKE A MOTION.
COMMISSIONER KIONA, THANK YOU.
OH OK.
SORRY THAT I LOST MY KIDS.
YEAH.
TAKE YOUR TIME.
OK, I MOVE THAT THE COMMISSION
ISSUE A CERTIFICATE
OF APPROPRIATENESS FOR THE
APPLICATION AT 331 E STREET,
THE CONTRIBUTING PROPERTY AND
THE OLD FOURTH WARD HISTORIC
DISTRICT TO ADD A SECOND FLOOR
ADDITION ON TOP OF AN EXISTING
SINGLE STORY REAR WING AND A
SINGLE STORY ADDITION BEHIND
THE REAR WING THE WORKING WHO'S
REPLACING A NON HISTORIC SIDE
DOOR CHANGING A WINDOW INTO A
DOOR ON THE REAR PORCH THE NEW
ALUMINUM STORM WINDOWS
ALUMINUM
CLAD ALUMINUM STORM WINDOWS
INSTALLING SEVERAL BASEMENT
EGRESS WINDOWS AND SKYLIGHTS
AND FORMALIZING FOR GRAVEL
PARKING SPACES AS PROPOSED.
THE WORK IS COMPATIBLE AND THE
EXTERIOR DESIGN ARRANGEMENT
TEXTURE MATERIAL AND
RELATIONSHIP TO THE REST OF THE
BUILDING AND THE SURROUNDING
AREA AND MEETS THE SECRETARY
OF THE INTERIOR STANDARDS FOR
REHABILITATION AND GUIDELINES
FOR REHABILITATING HISTORIC
BUILDINGS IN PARTICULAR
STANDARDS TWO FIVE, NINE AND
TEN AND THE GUIDELINES FOR
BUILDING SITE ADDITIONS, ROOFS
AND WINDOWS AS WELL AS THE ANN
ARBOR HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES FOR ALL EDITIONS,
RESIDENTIAL EDITIONS,
LANDSCAPING FEATURES ROOFS,
PORCHES, DOORS, PAVED AREAS AND
MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT SECOND OK
VERY GOOD.
THAT'S A MOVE BY COMMISSIONER
AKIHIRO SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER CALDERON.
SO NOW WE'LL DISCUSS THE MOTION
HERE.
THERE'S PROBABLY A FEW A FEW
AREAS TO DISCUSS BUT DOES
ANYONE HAVE ANY COMMENT RIGHT
OFF THE BAT HERE I HAVE A
QUESTION.
OK, QUESTION GOOD.
SO THE SECTOR CAN WE SEE THE
PHOTO FACING THE REAR ELEVATION
AS I UNDERSTAND FOR THE
EXISTING I'M SORRY THE REPLY
OK, SO THE THE NEW ADDITIONS IN
TERMS OF HOW IT INTERSECTS WITH
THE MAIN KIND OF ROOF.
RIGHT.
THAT SECOND STORY ROOF THAT
WE'RE LOOKING AT OK, I MEAN
ASIDE FROM THE THE ONE STORY
WING SO DOES THE I MEAN I KNOW
IT'S A HIP GROUP BUT DOES IT
STEP IN?
GREAT QUESTION AND I THINK YOU
MENTIONED IT IN YOUR STAFF
REPORT THERE'S VERY LITTLE SAID
IT'S SOMEWHERE BUT IT WASN'T ON
THE SITE PLAN TALKING ABOUT THE
SECOND FLOOR EDITION OR THE
GROUND FLOOR EDITION.
OH YES.
SECOND FLOOR RIGHT.
YEAH, YEAH.
YES IT DOES STEP IN.
YOU CAN SEE HERE ON THIS
DRAWING IS IT DIMENSIONS
SOMEWHERE IN THE IN A SECTION
OR AN ELEVATOR?
IT WOULDN'T BE AN ELEVATION.
IT IS TO BE IN A SECTION IT HAS
THE INSIDE OF THE SECOND STORY
FLOOR PLAN.
YEAH YEAH IT SHOWS UP BUT IT'S
NOT TO MENTION THAT'S A SITE
PLAN SO THAT'S BASE BUT IT'S
BASICALLY THE THE WALL OK THERE
IS A DIMENSION OH WHAT IS THIS
DIMENSION EIGHT INCHES OR SIX
OR EIGHT SIX.
I ASKED THAT QUESTION THAT THE
REVIEW COMMITTEE VISIT AND THEY
UPDATED THIS DRAWING WITH THAT
DIMENSION OK SO THAT'S
SOMETHING THAT'S SIX INCHES SIX
JUST HERE OK SIX INCHES HERE.
I MEAN IT LOOKS A LITTLE DEEPER
THAN THAT BECAUSE THEN THERE'S
SOME EHV BEYOND THAT OK, YOU
KNOW SO I GUESS THE QUESTION IS
IS SIX AND EIGHT IS ENOUGH TO
REALLY KIND OF KNOW BE SUBSERVE
AREN'T THAT MEAN IF I GAVE YOU
MY I MEAN OBVIOUSLY IT HELPS
THAT IT'S INSIDE GABAL VERSUS A
HIP SO AND ALSO THERE'S THE
EXISTING FIRST FLOOR ROOF THAT
WE'RE LOOKING AT.
WE'RE LOOKING AT THE TOP OF IT
RIGHT THERE.
RIGHT.
SO THAT WILL VISUALLY HAVE A
HORIZONTAL LINE WAS THAT WHOLE
THING?
YEAH, I THINK THAT IS HELPING
BECAUSE YOU WOULD READ
SOMETHING WITH THE MAIN YEAH.
THERE'S A GOOD PHOTO VERY GOOD
DRAWING OF IT.
OK AND THERE'S THERE'S
PERSPECTIVE DRAWINGS AS WELL
RIGHT.
I THINK THAT MIGHT HELP TO LOOK
AT A PERSPECTIVE OR THERE MIGHT
NOT BE IN THE STAFF REPORT.
YEAH THEY MIGHT BE IN THE
PACKET YEAH THERE WAS I DON'T
KNOW IF THAT'S THE RIGHT ANGLE
BUT YOU YOU DON'T REALLY SEE
MUCH.
YEAH THERE IS A ZERO ZERO THREE
A PROSPECT ARE THREE
COMMISSIONER CIASS AND YOU CAN
AND THERE'S ONE FOR IT'S FROM
EACH SIDE SO YOU CAN SEE THE
BUMP IN AND FROM ABOUT AS SMALL
AS YOU CAN GET AWAY WITH ME.
OH I GOT THOSE YEAH HERE THERE
YOU GO.
OH THAT'S OH YEAH YEAH I MEAN I
GUESS THIS IS NEGLIGIBLE LIKE I
THOUGHT MAYBE IT'S JUST I DON'T
KNOW THE NATURE OF THIS
RENDERING MAYBE IN REAL LIFE
THAT'S THAT I GUESS SO IT'S
MINOR.
YEAH BUT IT'S ALSO I MEAN I
MEAN IT'S WHY IT'S HAPPENING
YEAH.
IT'S GOING TO BE THE CORNER
TRIM AND THEN YOU'LL NOTHING
OF YEAH RIGHT.
IT'LL BE JUST YEAH IT'LL IT'LL
BE A SHADOW LINE THOUGH YOU
KNOW SO IT'S IT'LL BE A SHADOW
BUT YEAH I THINK WITHOUT THE
WITHOUT THE EXISTING FIRST
STORY THERE IT WOULD BE REALLY
TOUGH TO READ BUT SINCE THERE'S
THAT LITTLE PORCH THERE WITH
THE OVERHANG IT'LL READ PUSHING
PUSHING THE LINE YOU KNOW.
YEAH YEAH.
YOU LOSE THAT REAR WALL
ELEVATION THE RIGHT LIKE ALMOST
THE ENTIRE WHICH WE'RE THAT'S
JUST YEAH YEAH.
AND THAT IS THAT CHARACTER
RIGHT.
AND YEAH I MEAN IN A WAY IT
HELPS BECAUSE IT'S IT'S COMING
INTO THE CROSSABLE BUT ALSO
WHEN YOU WHEN IT COMES INTO THE
GABLE IT REALLY READS A
SUBORDINATE BECAUSE YOU CAN PUT
THE THE NEW ROOF IF YOU DO A
GABLE ROOF YOU KNOW BELOW THE
EXISTING GABLE ROOF AND IT
REALLY READS AS AN ADDITION IN
THIS CASE SINCE THE GABLE IS
TURNED YOU'RE JUST YOU DON'T
HAVE THAT OPTION.
SO YEAH TO ME IT LOOKS AND
THAT'S SUBORDINATE BECAUSE THE
ROOFLINE IS GOING HIGHER THAN
AND IT'S JUST WE DON'T I KNOW
THAT WE'VE SEEN THAT SORT
OF CROSS CROSSABLE RARE
EDITIONS BUT YEAH, THEY'RE NOT
AS FREQUENT ACROSS CABLE.
IT'S A LITTLE FOR ME LIKE YOU
KNOW THE QUESTION AROUND IS
THAT YOU KNOW THAT PORTION THE
WALL COVER IS THAT KIND OF THE
FUNNY YOU KNOW, LIKE YOU KNOW
THESE ITALIANATE HOUSES WITH
THESE WINDOWS?
I MEAN IT'S BUT YOU KNOW, JUST
I SAW SOMETHING LIKE THIS IN
AMERICA.
WHAT WAS THE COMMENT REGARDING
THE ADDITION TO ITALIANATE?
I JUST KNOW THE ORIGINAL
PORTION THE ORIGINAL THE
ORIGINAL PORTION OF THE HOUSE
TWO STORY.
YEAH.
LET'S CAN WE GET A PHOTO
OF THAT.
SURE.
YEAH OK.
OH NO NO NO I'M LOOKING AT IT
BECAUSE TYPICALLY YOU KNOW LIKE
YOU'LL SEE THIS ITALIANATE
HOUSES WHERE YOU HAVE THESE
WINDOWS THAT ARE LIKE SUPER
HIGH UP RIGHT THIS IS A LITTLE
FUNKY.
IT'S GOT SOME KIND OF YEAH.
THAT THAT ONE ON THE RIGHT
THERE.
YEAH.
THAT CRASHES RIGHT THROUGH THE
FREEZE BOARD.
YEAH YEAH.
THAT KIND OF COULD YOU ZOOM IN
ON THAT AND IT MESSES WITH THE
HISTORIC NATURE THERE DOESN'T
IT.
IT LOOKS AS THE BATHROOM NOT
SURPRISINGLY RIGHT THROUGH THE
BATHROOM WINDOW IN IT BUT IT'S
YEAH IT'S A LITTLE WEIRD OK OK
WELL YOU STILL READ THAT THE
GIEBEL FOR I MEAN WE GET THE
DELINEATION ON THE SIDEWALK
PEOPLE RIGHT.
IT'S NOT THAT DEEP OF AN OFFSET
FROM THE CORNER BUT IT IS AN
OFFSET RIGHT AND I SUPPOSE
MAYBE THAT WOULD WANT TO BE A
GABLE ROOF BUT THEN I THINK
THAT THAT LITTLE ONE STORY
THING THEY MADE ALL HIP ROOFS
SO THAT ADDITIONS CAN RESPOND
TO THE OTHER ADDITIONS BEING
ALL HIPS AND SO WE GOT A
GAMBRELL A STRAIGHT UP GABLE.
YEAH, HIPS THERE'S A LITTLE
SHED ROOF ON THE SIDE THERE TOO
SO WE GOT EVERYTHING BEING ON A
ROOF ROOF BINGO.
YEAH.
OK SO I GUESS THE FOOTPRINT IS
WITHIN THE FIFTY PERCENT AND IT
EXTENDS QUITE DEEP INTO THE LOT
BUT IT SEEMS TO MEET THE
STANDARDS BY BEING WITHIN THE
FIFTY PERCENT AND KIND
OF GAINING THE ADVANTAGE JUST
HAVING THAT HISTORIC FOOTPRINT
BEING KIND OF BIG RELATIVE TO
THE SQUARE FOOTAGE OF THE HOUSE
AND THEN SO MANY COMMENTS ON
THAT LITTLE ONE STORY ARE WE OK
WITH THE WINDOWS NOT HAVING THE
THE MOUNTAIN TOPS MEETING REAL
I GUESS YOU'D CALL IT?
YEAH I I MEAN I APPRECIATE THAT
THE ALL THE NEW WINDOWS ARE
EITHER KASEMAN OR ORNING.
YEAH.
IT'S A DIFFERENT SYSTEM AND
DIFFERENT TYPE WINDOW
.
YEAH IT DOESN'T CONCERN ME THAT
THEY'RE NOT FO DOUBLE HOME
LOOKING VERY GOOD.
YEAH NO NO OTHER ISSUES IT
SOUNDS LIKE WITH THAT SO BACK
IN THIS PICTURE I'M SEEING THE
GUARD FROM DO WE HAVE THE
SIDEWALK VIEW.
I'M JUST WONDERING IF THAT
GUARD IS VISIBLE FROM THIS
STREET I GUESS IN ELEVATION IT
WOULDN'T BE BUT I THINK IT'S
KIND OF TOP LINE TUCKED IN OK,
I THINK IT'S UNUSUAL THAT IT'S
JUST ON THE ONE SIDE, RIGHT?
OH NO I GUESS WELL I GUESS YOU
GOT TO GET OUT OF THERE SOMEHOW
SO YOU CAN'T HAVE IT AT ALL
THREE, RIGHT?
YEAH.
BUT YEAH THEY'RE WALKING YOU'LL
BE WALKING PAST IT BUT THAT'S
HOW IT'S PROPOSED SO I GUESS
LET'S GET INTO THAT THE THERE'S
A THERE'S COMPOSITE MATERIAL
PROPOSED FOR THAT GUARDRAIL
THERE.
YEAH.
FOR THE THE INFILL OF THE GUARD
AND THEN THERE'S THE SAME FOR
THE FENCE SO WHAT DO THE
GUIDELINES I DON'T REMEMBER
WHAT THE GUIDELINES SAY FOR THE
COMPOSITE MATERIAL.
THEY SAY THEY WILL BE REVIEWED
ON A CASE BY CASE BASIS.
I DID SEND YOU GUYS SOME SOME
NEW INFORMATION THIS WEEK.
RIGHT.
THAT'S A LITTLE MORE OPEN TO
COMPOSITE MATERIALS.
I STARTED READING IT BUT I DID
NOT READ IT.
YEAH.
YEAH, I ALSO TALKED ABOUT FOUR
THINGS THAT ARE OUT OF SIGHT
AND IN THE BACK AND IT WAS SORT
OF THE WAY WE'VE BEEN APPLYING
IT ANYWAY LIKE MAYBE A
FIBERGLASS PORCH COLUMN IS FINE
AS LONG AS IT MATCHES EXACTLY
WHAT THE WOODEN ONE USED TO
LOOK LIKE THAT SORT OF THING.
SO ARE CATCHING UP TO US.
YES THEY ARE GOOD BUT THIS OR
IS THIS WE'RE TALKING ABOUT FOR
THE FENCING OR.
WELL IT'S FOR BOTH BUT WE CAN
TALK ABOUT IT SEPARATELY BUT
THE GUARD HAS THE SAME INFILL
AS THE FENCE AND AND IT'S
COMPOSITE WOOD LOOKING'S YOU
KNOW LIKE A ONE BY SIX IT SEEMS
LIKE NOT TALKING ABOUT LIKE
REPLACING A HISTORIC FEATURE.
THIS IS NOT IN THIS PROPOSAL.
YEAH.
SO I THINK IT IS A NEW ELEMENT.
WE ARE DESIGN GUIDELINES DO SAY
THAT IT'S NOT APPROPRIATE USE
OF VINYL COVERED FENCE PANELS,
COMPOSITE IS A LITTLE
DIFFERENT.
YEAH.
LET ME GET YOU BACK TO IT WILL
MOST LIKELY APPROXIMATE WOOD
FROM THIS SIDE WHAT I MEAN FROM
THE SIDEWALK IT'LL PROBABLY
LOOK MORE OR LESS LIKE WOOD I
THINK AND IN TEN YEARS IT'LL
LOOK WAY BETTER THAN WHATEVER
BREAD WE WOULD ASK THEM TO
BUILD PROBABLY YOU GUYS HAVE
ANY CONCERNS ABOUT THE METAL
FRAME THAT IT SET INTO?
THAT'S A LITTLE DIFFERENT RIGHT
.
SO THAT'S THAT'S MORE OF A
MODERN APPROACH AND I GUESS I
WOULD HAVE A CONCERN, YOU KNOW,
IN THE FRONT SET BACK OR IF
IT'S REPLACING SOMETHING
HISTORIC.
YEAH, I THINK THE LOCATION
OF THIS AND I DON'T HAVE IT IN
MY PRINTED COPY BUT I'M
REMEMBERING THIS PLAN IN THE
PRESENTATION.
IT WAS SO FAR FROM THE PUBLIC
RIGHT AWAY.
YEAH.
IT'S BASICALLY IN FRONT OF THE
PARKING.
YEAH.
SORRY I AGREE IF IT WAS
SOMETHING THAT WAS PROPOSED AS
A REPLACEMENT OF AN EXISTING
HISTORIC FENCE OR SOMETHING
TOWARDS THE FRONT OF THE
PROPERTY MUCH MORE PRIMARY VIEW
I WOULD HAVE CONCERNS BUT WHERE
THIS IS LOCATED AND THIS IS
WHERE I MEAN THIS KIND OF THIS
PORTION AND THIS IS WHERE THE
NEW ADDITIONS IS GOING TO BE.
SO IT'S NOT I MEAN THIS IS THE
MODERN IT'S THE NEWS ON THE
NEWS LIKE THE PARKING IN THE
BACK.
SO YEAH, I HAVE AS MUCH I DON'T
HAVE A BIG ISSUE WITH THIS
ESPECIALLY SINCE THAT WILL BE
SO FAR BACK AND YEAH.
OK, SAME SAME FEELING DOWN
THERE MORE OR LESS WITH THE
FENCE BUT IN THIS INSTANCE IT'S
YEAH.
SO VERY GOOD.
COULD I MAKE ONE QUICK COMMENT.
ABSOLUTELY.
SO IN FRONT OF THE FENCE THE
PLANS THAT YOU HAVE SHOW A RAIN
GARDEN RIGHT HERE AND AT THE
REVIEW COMMITTEE VISIT I
SUGGESTED MAYBE I COULD TAKE
THAT OUT AND POTENTIALLY LOSE
PARKING SPACE AND YOU KNOW, GET
SOMETHING A LITTLE MORE USEFUL
BACK THERE.
YEAH.
SINCE I DIDN'T LOSE THE PARKING
SPACE, I DON'T CARE ABOUT THE
RAIN GARDEN.
RIGHT.
YOU KNOW, I DON'T WANT TO JUST
BE AN AREA THAT'S GOING TO
COLLECT TRASH.
IF YOU WANTED TO PUT GREAT
LANDSCAPING IN THERE, TERRIFIC.
IF YOU WANT TO PUT A RAIN
GARDEN IN THERE AS THAT'S JUST
LANDSCAPING TO ME ALSO I DON'T
WANT TO KILL A RAIN GARDEN FOR
NO REASON SO THAT'S A GREAT
COMMENT.
YEAH.
SO IF THIS SLOPING IT'S
ACTUALLY YEAH.
PROBABLY BETTER TO HAVE THE
RAIN GARDEN THAN TO NOT HAVE
THE RAIN GARDEN SO THAT'S
THAT'S GOOD TO HEAR THAT IT
SOUNDS LIKE IT'S UP TO YOU IF
YOU CAN SLOW THE STORMWATER OFF
THE SITE OR YEAH.
OR HAVE A RAIN GARDEN AND
FINALLY ON THE FENCE IF YOU
WANT TO JUST APPROVE A SIX FOOT
TALL COMPOSITE FENCE YOU COULD
ASK SOMEBODY TO ADD THAT TO THE
MOTION.
OK, SO LET'S GET IT AND LET'S
DO THAT RIGHT NOW TO DO A STAFF
APPROVAL.
YOU CAN SEE I APPROVE IT.
YEAH.
EITHER WAY YEAH.
YOU COULD DO NOTHING AND IT
COULD BE A STAFF APPROVAL LATER
SINCE IT'S NOT PART OF THE
ORIGINAL SUBMISSION.
OK, I HEAR WHAT YOU'RE SAYING.
YEAH.
DO YOU MIND ADDING IT TO THE
MOTION?
I MEAN I I DON'T DOES THAT
SOUND ALL RIGHT FOR EVERYONE.
I MEAN WE SAW A PICTURE OF IT
WE HAVE A DRAWING AT LEAST
SHOWING WHERE IT'S GOING TO GO.
YOU KNOW IF IT WAS JUST BROUGHT
UP NOW OR SOMETHING AND WE
DIDN'T HAVE ANY DOCUMENTATION I
WOULD NOT WANT TO ADD IT TO THE
MOTION.
BUT DO WE KIND OF FEEL LIKE
THERE'S ENOUGH INFORMATION HERE
?
YEAH.
OK, DO YOU DO THAT RIGHT NOW?
I DON'T KNOW IF THERE'S OTHER
DISCUSSION.
WELL THAT MIGHT REQUIRE OTHER
PROBABLY BUT DO YOU WANT TO
JUST.
SURE.
OK I GOT THIS ONE OUT I ADD TO
THE MOTION AFTER THE LIST
OF ITEMS OF WORK INCLUDED SO
WE'VE GOT AN FORMALIZING FOR
GRAVEL PARKING SPACES AS WELL
AS INCLUDING A FENCE COMPOSED
OF METAL FRAME AND COMPOSITE
FLAT MATERIAL AS PROSECTION OR
SOMETHING ELSE DID YOU SAY A
SIX FOOT FENCE?
OH THAT IS SIX FOOT TALL.
OK, THAT'S SIX FOOT DEEP.
THANK YOU.
OK I HAD A QUESTION FOR MISS
THATCHER BUT I'M JUST GOING TO
WAIT ONE SECOND BECAUSE I SEE
THAT SHE'S WRITING SO MANY
OTHER COMMENTS IN THE MEANTIME
.
OK, I HAVEN'T HEARD ANYTHING
YET THAT'S REALLY A MAJOR HOLD
MAYBE I'VE HEARD KIND OF THE
SECOND STORY DIFFERENTIATION IS
REALLY PUSHING THE BOUNDARIES.
WE'VE HEARD THAT MISS THATCHER
I BELIEVE IT YOU SAID SOMETHING
ABOUT HOW THERE'S ONE OF THE
PARKING SPACES IS TOO CLOSE TO
A LIVABLE AREA OR SOMETHING
LIKE THAT.
I DID SAY THAT.
YEAH.
GOOD POINT.
MOEZZI NO PARKING SPACE SHOULD
BE LOCATED CLOSER THAN TEN FEET
TO ANY BUILDING USED FOR A
DWELLING UNIT ON THE FIRST
FLOOR.
SO THAT ONE IS THAT COMING OUT
OF THE LIVING OUT OF YEAH
THAT'S COMING OUT AS A UNIFIED
DEVELOPMENT.
YEAH OK.
YEAH YEAH.
THANK YOU FOR BRINGING THAT UP
.
SO THAT'S SOMETHING THAT AND
YOU WANT TO LOOK AT THAT WILL
COME THROUGH AND WHEN THEY GO
THROUGH THE ZONING YEAH.
YEAH OK YEAH.
SO SO WE DON'T YOU DON'T HAVE
TO WORRY ABOUT IT BUT THEY
COULD BE LOSING A SPACE.
YEAH.
OR JUST THE RIGHT DIRECTION
ANYWAY OK I THINK THAT WHAT
WE'RE LOOKING AT IS THAT AREA
WAS OVER PARKING AND IT'S STILL
BEING PROPOSED TO BE USED FOR
PARKING.
I MEAN I GUESS I WISH IT WASN'T
BEING USED FOR PARKING BUT FROM
HISTORIC DISTRICT STANDPOINT IT
SEEMS LIKE THEY USE IS NOT
CHANGING IN THAT AREA.
I DON'T KNOW IF IT'S HISTORIC
USE NECESSARILY BUT IT'S A VERY
DOCUMENTED LONG RUNNING USE.
SO I THINK IN TERMS OF WHAT'S
PROPOSED IT PROBABLY MAKES
SENSE.
YEAH.
ALSO IT'S I MEAN IT'LL BE WHAT
APPEARS TO BE MUCH MORE
FORMALIZED THAN WHAT'S RIGHT
NOW.
SO YOU KNOW, KIND OF UPKEEP AND
OR PRESENTABLE BUT ALSO WHAT
YOU KNOW, GRAVEL PARKING AREA
STILL.
SO IT'S IT COULD BE CHANGED.
YOU KNOW, IT'S NOT SOMETHING
THAT'S IMPACTING THE HISTORIC
FEATURES.
VERY GOOD.
OK, WELL I THINK THERE ARE
OTHER COMMENTS.
ARE WE READY TO VOTE HERE?
I'M NOT SEEING OTHER COMMENTS
SO WE ARE GOING TO VOTE ALL
THOSE IN FAVOR OF THE MOTION.
PLEASE SAY YES.
YES, YES, YES.
ALL THOSE OPPOSED PLEASE SAY NO
.
THE MOTION CARRIES YOUR
APPLICATION HAS BEEN APPROVED.
DON'T FORGET TO GET YOUR
PERMITS AND YOUR ZONING OK,
THANK YOU VERY MUCH AND AT THIS
POINT WE WILL MOVE ON TO OUR
LAST HEARING THIS EVENING WHICH
IS FOR FIVE TWENTY SIX DETROIT
STREET
.
MISS THATCHER WHEN YOU'RE READY
PLEASE.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
FIVE TWENTY SIX DETROIT STREET
IS A ONE AND A HALF STOREY
GABLE FRONT COTTAGE.
THE FEATURES WOULD LAP CITING A
SCULPTED BLOCK FOUNDATION FOR
AN ENTRY PORCH SO THE ORIGINAL
TURN AND ONE OVER WINDOWS THE
HOUSE HAS A REVERSE TWIN FIVE
TWENTY EIGHT DETROIT WHICH IS
NEXT DOOR TO THE NORTHEAST OR
THE LEFT.
THIS PHOTO IS A OH YEAH SO
HERE'S THE FRONT PRETTY SIMPLE
STRAIGHTFORWARD ONE AND A HALF
STOREY COTTAGE THE APPLICANT IS
SEEKING HGC APPROVAL TO ADD ONE
HUNDRED AND EIGHTY FIVE SQUARE
FOOT AND ONE HUNDRED AND THIRTY
SQUARE FOOT REAR ADDITIONS A
COMPOSITE PRIVACY FENCE INFILL
A HISTORIC REAR DOOR OPENING AT
FOUR SKYLIGHT AND CONVERT A
NONCONTRIBUTING GARAGE INTO AN
ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT BY
RAISING THE ROOF ADDING NEW
CLADDING AND FALSE EAVES,
INSTALLING A PATIO AND REMOVING
EXISTING OPENINGS AND ADDING
NEW ONES SO THE IS THE HOUSE.
HERE'S THE NONCONTRIBUTING
GARAGE DOES NOT APPEAR ON THE
1947 AERIAL PHOTOS THERE YOU
DID USED TO BE A ONE CAR GARAGE
HERE BUT THERE'S NO EVIDENCE
THAT ANY PART OF THAT IS PART
OF THIS BIG CMU TWO CAR GARAGE
HERE IT IS OF CLOSER PRETTY
MUCH NOTHING SPECIAL ABOUT IT.
IT'S ONLY HAS A COUPLE
OF OPENINGS, A COUPLE
OF WINDOWS ON THE OTHER SIDE
THIS IS THE I'M GOING TO SAY
RIGHT SIDE AWAY FROM THE HOUSE
SIDE THIS LOT IS IS KIND
OF CRAZY THE WAY IT'S LAID OUT.
RIGHT.
AND THE LOT LINE GOES THAT THE
CORNER OF THE BUILDING APPEARS
TO BE ON OR OVER WILL HAVE LINE
AND A LOT LINE STRIKES OUT THIS
WAY GOES BEHIND THEIR AC UNIT
TO A FENCE FURTHER BACK AND
THEN IT CUTS BACK IN HERE AND
THEN IT CUTS BACK TOWARD THE
BACK GARAGE.
SO THEY'RE PROPOSING TO CLEAR
OUT THIS AREA WHICH MOSTLY IS
THE NEIGHBORS STORAGE RIGHT NOW
AND PUT A DOOR THERE SO THAT
YOU COULD ACCESS A NEW PATIO
EXCUSE ME.
SO THIS IS THE SIDE OF THE
GARAGE.
YOU CAN SEE THE REAR REAR FENCE
LINE HERE ON THE BACK OF THE
HOUSE HAS THIS SMALL SORT
OF SMALL ROOM AMISH LOOKING
THING.
THE WALL ON THE DRIVEWAY SIDE
IS FLUSH ALL THE WAY BACK.
THIS IS AN ORIGINAL PART OF THE
HOUSE.
IT'S NOT AN ADDITION HOUSE NEXT
DOOR HAS AN IDENTICAL ONE.
YOU SEE THERE AREN'T REALLY ANY
OPENINGS BACK HERE THIS DOOR
OPENING IS PROPOSED TO TO BE
REMOVED AND UNFORTUNATELY I
THINK WHEN WE WERE OUT THERE I
DIDN'T TAKE A GOOD PICTURE
OF THE DOOR THAT'S IN THERE.
LET'S SEE.
I'M SORRY YOU GUYS JUST WE WERE
JUST AS SORRY I GOT TO GO GET
SOME WATER.
I'LL BE RIGHT BACK.
OK,
LET'S JUST DO THE REVIEW
COMMITTEE REPORT.
WELL, STAFF GOING SO THAT WAS
COMMISSIONER FOR DINNER KIYONO
WHAT WHAT CAN YOU TELL US.
IT IS A VERY COMPACT YEAH I
FEEL FOR THE PEOPLE WHO ARE
TRYING TO GET BACK THERE OK I'M
OUT OF THIS YEAH WE'RE TIRED SO
IT WILL BE TRICKY.
LET'S GO ONE AT A TIME
OF SEVERE PRESSURE.
YEAH WELL THE THE SPACE BETWEEN
THE THAT THIS CORNER OF THE
HOUSE THAT SHE LEFT UP THERE IN
THE GARAGE IS FOUR FEET I GUESS
REALLY NARROW OK BUT YOU KNOW I
THINK IT'S A STRAIGHT JOE IS
STARTING TO SAY THAT BACK
HOUSES THEY WANT TO EXTEND OUT
HAS NO OPENINGS ON IT
CURRENTLY.
OK, AND CERTAINLY THAT
ADDITIONAL BE SUPPORTED
SUBORDINATE TO THE THE REST
OF THE HOUSE AND COMPLETELY
SEEN FROM THE STREET.
OK, THE THE GARAGE IS ALREADY
RIGHT THERE BY THE HOUSE.
THIS WILL, YOU KNOW, IMPROVE
THE APPEARANCE OF THAT
STRUCTURE OF THE
NONCONTRIBUTING STRUCTURE.
OK, ANYTHING DOWN JUST THE THE
NEIGHBORS ON EITHER SIDE AGAIN
IT'S VERY DENSELY PACKED AS
WELL.
VIEWS OF THE NEW EDITION AT THE
REAR ARE GOING TO BE VERY
LIMITED IF ANY.
OK, FROM THE STREET OR FROM THE
SIDEWALK?
YEAH, OK.
I JUST WENT ON THE REVIEW
COMMITTEE AND THAT'S GREAT THAT
THAT'S GREAT.
SO THIS IS JUST A PHOTO SHOWING
THE DIFFERENT STRANGE
INTERSECTIONS.
THIS IS THE PEAK OF THE HOUSE.
THIS IS THAT LITTLE ROOM ON THE
BACK THERE ARE TWO SHED
DORMERS, ONE ON EITHER SIDE
OF THE ROOF THAT ARE PRETTY
LARGE.
THOSE ARE NOT ORIGINAL.
THE STRUCTURE THEY WERE ADDED
SOMETIME AFTER NINETEEN FORTY
FOUR SO THEY'RE NOT A
CONTRIBUTING THERE'S NOTHING
HISTORIC ABOUT THEM.
THIS IS LOOKING AT THIS IS ON
THE RIGHT IS LOOKING DOWN THE
THE THE SIDE WHAT LINE YOU CAN
SEE IT'S PRETTY TIGHT PRETTY
CLOSE TO THAT HOUSE AGAIN
HERE'S THE OTHER NOT ORIGINAL
DORMER ONE SKINNY WINDOW ON
THAT LITTLE BUMP OUT IN THE
BACK THAT THE ADDITION IS
PROPOSED TO GO RIGHT IN THIS
THIS NOTCH HERE IT WOULD STICK
OUT A LITTLE BIT FURTHER THAN
THE BUMP OUT DOES BUT IT WOULD
FIT IT'S JUST RECTANGULAR.
IT WOULD IN THERE WITH A SMALL
CORNER IN THAT INSET I SHOULD
SAY.
OH, THIS LOOKS LIKE ANOTHER
VIEW FROM BEHIND THE GARAGE
WHERE THE NEIGHBORS HAVE
CONVENIENTLY GRAVELED IN A
PARKING SPACE AND NOT THEIR
PROPERTY.
OH MY BUT THIS IS ALL AN AREA
THAT WOULD BECOME PATIO AS PART
OF THE AIDOO.
OH THIS LOOKS WHILE SOMETHING
IT'S JUST WHEN IT'S SQUISHED
EVERYTHING SINCE IT'S DIAGONAL
EVERYTHING TURNED INTO LIKE
PARALLELOGRAMS INSTEAD ANGLES.
WOW.
ALL RIGHT.
SO THE EXISTING IS ON THE RIGHT
IT'S A LITTLE HARD TO READ
SINCE WE SEEM TO HAVE OUR
ZONING LINES OVER THE TOP BUT
THE FOOTPRINT IS THIS RED LINE
AND HERE'S THE EXISTING PATIO.
HERE'S THE EXISTING GARAGE AND
WHAT'S PROPOSED IS TO ADD A
LITTLE EXTENSION ALMOST OF THE
NON ORIGINAL DORMERS FARTHER
BACK BUT NOT THEIR WHOLE DEPTH
JUST JUST PART OF IT TO BUMP
OUT A BACK WALL OF THE SECOND
FLOOR AND THEN TO BUILD A
SINGLE STORY ADDITION
UNDERNEATH THAT IN THAT NOTCH
THAT I POINTED OUT.
OK, SO HERE'S THE EXISTING
FOUNDATION.
HERE'S THE NEW BASEMENT.
HERE'S WHERE THE ADDITIONAL
STICK OUT HERE WE DO HAVE A
LITTLE SMALL INSET HERE.
I HOPE IT'S DIMENSIONS LATER ON
THERE IT IS.
SO RIGHT NOW THIS IS THE BACK
CORNER OF THE HOUSE THAT THAT
CORNERS HERE AND WE'VE GOT THE
ADDITIONS STICKING OUT.
IT SITS IN THE LARGE MOTORS.
WE'LL TALK ABOUT THE TWO AT THE
SAME TIME.
INFELD THE GARAGE DOOR PUT IT A
PERSON DOOR PUT IN A SLIDER ON
THE SIDE AND I DON'T THINK
THERE ARE ANY WINDOWS LEFT ON
THIS SIDE IN ORDER TO GIVE THAT
BACK A LITTLE BIT OF PRIVACY
BACK HERE NEW SECOND LEVEL,
THIS IS WHERE YOU SEE THE
SECOND FLOOR NEW LITTLE SADDLE
ON THE BACK SO IT SEE HOW IT
WILL NOW OVERLAP WITH THIS HIP
ON THE BACK.
IT USED TO BE JUST STRAIGHT
ACROSS AND THEN THE ROOF PLAN
IS HELPFUL.
HOW COME THAT LITTLE BIT IT'S
NOT SHADED THERE'S A LITTLE
RECTANGLE NOTCH AND THIS KNEW
THAT IS ROOF SURFACE THAT'S
EXISTING ROOF SURFACE IN THE
VERY CENTER.
SO THERE'S THE SECOND FLOOR
YOU'LL SEE.
OK, THAT IS A REBUILT ROOF
BRIDGE AND IT'S NEW THOUGH
RIGHT?
YEAH.
YEAH BUT IT'S THERE NOW.
OH YEAH WE'LL GET TO THAT.
OK SO THERE IT IS RIGHT THERE.
OH YEAH.
OH IT'S THERE IT'S EXISTING
IT'S THERE EXISTING BY GOT IT.
IT'S BECAUSE OF THE DORMERS ARE
LOWER.
YEAH YEAH OK YEAH IT'S
INTERESTING LET'S TAKE IT OFF
AND PUT BACK HERE AGAIN IT'S
EXISTING AND WE'LL GET A NEW
EDITION HAS THIS OH IT GETS
REMOVED IN THERE.
I'M SORRY THAT IS JUST SINKING
IN THERE.
YEAH IT GETS REMOVED AND THEN
PUT BACK AND PUT BACK UP OK SO
THIS THERE'S A LITTLE LITTLE
SADDLE HERE BETWEEN TWO REAR
WINGS THAT REALLY CHANGES THE
FRONT OF THE HOUSE.
YOU CAN SEE THAT THE THE EDU
HERE THEY ARE RAISING THE ROOF
NOT VERY MUCH JUST A COUPLE
OF FEET JUST TO GET SOME
HEADROOM IN THERE AND THEN
THERE'S THIS APPLIED TRIM TO
MAKE IT LOOK LIKE PEDIMENTS
FRONT TO MAKE IT MORE
COMPATIBLE WITH THE HOUSE
INSTEAD OF HAVING JUST A REALLY
SHALLOW ROOF LINE UP TOP.
OK,
ALL RIGHT.
HERE'S THE SIDE HERE.
YOU CAN SEE BETTER HOW THAT
ROOF EXTENSION WORKS BEHIND THE
DOOR.
MY YEAH
.
YEAH.
IT'S VERY CREATIVE.
THESE ARE A LITTLE BIT WASHED
OUT.
I THINK THIS IS THE THE ADA YOU
ELEVATION HERE.
YEAH.
YOU CAN'T REALLY SEE THE SLIDER
BUT THERE IS A SLIDER HERE
RIGHT IN THE MIDDLE RIGHT THERE
WE GO FRONT BACK SECTIONS
OF THE HOUSE I MEAN WE CAN
REFER TO THOSE IF YOU NEED THEM
A COUPLE OF PERSPECTIVE
DRAWINGS AND THERE'S OUR
COMPOSITE ONCE AGAIN SO THE
FENCE AND SIMILAR WINDOWS ARE
PROPOSED TO BE USED ON THIS
PROJECT AS THE LAST ONE.
SO THE FENCE IS SHOWN HERE.
SO HERE THE FENCE COMES OUT,
FOLLOWS THE PROPERTY LINE,
COMES BACK TO THE BACK OF THE
GARAGE, THEN NEW FENCE ON TO
THE SIDES OF THE BACK YARD FOR
THE HOUSE IN THAT LITTLE CORNER
OF THE GARAGE IS BUILT LIKE
OVER THE PROPERTY LINE OR
SOMETHING LIKE THAT.
IS THAT WHY THE FENCE DOES
THAT?
YEAH, YEAH, IT LOOKS LIKE IT
LOOKS LIKE IT WAS A LITTLE BIT
HERE TOO ON THIS SIDE.
OK, OK STANDARDS THE GUIDELINES
I'VE READ TO JUST ABOUT EVERY
STANDARD GUIDELINE THERE IS TWO
FIVE NINE AND TEN I'VE READ YOU
THE GUIDELINES FOR BUILDING
SITE AND ADDITIONS AND ROOFS
AND WINDOWS
OK SO FOR ALL
EDITIONS IT'S NOT APPROPRIATE
TO CONSTRUCT AN ADDITION THAT
SIGNIFICANTLY CHANGES THE
PROPORTION OF BUILT MASS TO
OPEN SPACE ON THE INDIVIDUAL
SITE FOR LANDSCAPE FEATURES.
IT'S APPROPRIATE TO RETAIN
HISTORIC RELATIONSHIPS BETWEEN
BUILDINGS, LANDSCAPE FEATURES
AND OPEN SPACES.
THIS IS JUST A REALLY TIGHT
SITE FOR RESIDENTIAL DOORS.
IT'S APPROPRIATE TO RETAIN
REPAIR OR MAINTAIN ORIGINAL
DOORS, HARDWARE AND TRIM
INCLUDING CLADDING, TRANSAM
SIDELIGHTS AND SURROUNDS.
IT'S NOT APPROPRIATE TO REMOVE
OR REPLACE A REPAIRABLE
ORIGINAL DOOR OR ENLARGE,
REDUCE OR OTHERWISE CHANGE THE
DOOR OPENING SIGHS SO I
APOLOGIZE FOR NOT GETTING A
GOOD PICTURE OF THAT BACK DOOR
THIS THERE'S A DRAWING OF THE
EXISTING DOOR.
OH OH THAT'S EXISTING FRONT
DOOR.
NEVER MIND I JUST DON'T KNOW
WHAT THE MATERIAL IS OF THAT
BACK DOOR THAT'S SUPPOSED TO
BE.
INFELD IT WOULD CAUSE ME LESS
HEARTBURN IF IT WERE A NON
ORIGINAL DOOR BUT I JUST DON'T
KNOW SO MAYBE THE APPLICANT CAN
ENLIGHTEN US ON THAT.
SO THAT'S THAT'S ALL STAFF HAS
TO REPORT.
THANK YOU VERY GOOD.
THANK YOU, MISS THATCHER.
SO WE'VE WE HEARD MORE OR LESS
FROM THE REVIEW COMMITTEE BUT
BASED ON NOW HEARING THE ENTIRE
STAFF OF COURSE DO YOU HAVE
ANYTHING ELSE?
NO.
AND DO YOU HAVE ANYTHING ELSE
BASED ON THE REST OF THE STAFF
REPORT THAT WE HEARD?
NO.
OK, VERY GOOD.
THEN WE'LL ASK THE APPLICANT TO
COME FORWARD AND PROVIDE YOUR
NAME AND ADDRESS FOR THE RECORD
AND LET US KNOW IF THERE'S WHAT
YOU'D LIKE TO ADD PLEASE.
THANK YOU.
GOOD EVENING AGAIN IN PERSON I
THINK SIMILAR TO THE PREVIOUS
PROJECT AGAIN WITH THE THE THE
LAYOUT OF THE SPACE THIS
PARTICULAR HOME WAS A FOUR
BEDROOM RENTAL PROPERTY.
IT'S STILL GOING TO BE FOUR
WE'RE JUST TRYING AGAIN TO MAKE
BEDROOM RENTAL PROPERTY.
THOSE THOSE BEDROOMS A LITTLE
WE'RE JUST TRYING AGAIN TO MAKE
BIT NICER SIZE THE UPSTAIRS THE
THOSE THOSE BEDROOMS A LITTLE
STAIRS IN THE BATHROOM ON THE
BIT NICER SIZE THE UPSTAIRS THE
SECOND LEVEL ARE COMPLETELY
STAIRS IN THE BATHROOM ON THE
NON-COMPLIANT TO GET A NEW
SECOND LEVEL ARE COMPLETELY
STAIRWELL IN IN A NICE
NON-COMPLIANT TO GET A NEW
CODE COMPLIANT ROOM UPSTAIRS.
STAIRWELL IN IN A NICE
THAT'S REALLY THE IMPETUS FOR
CODE COMPLIANT ROOM UPSTAIRS.
THE ADDITION ON THE SECOND
THAT'S REALLY THE IMPETUS FOR
LEVEL AND WE UTILIZED A LITTLE
THE ADDITION ON THE SECOND
BIT EXTRA SPACE TO KIND BALANCE
LEVEL AND WE UTILIZED A LITTLE
OUT THAT THAT REAR ELEVATION BY
BIT EXTRA SPACE TO KIND BALANCE
MAKING CLOSETS MUCH MORE USABLE
OUT THAT THAT REAR ELEVATION BY
AS WELL BECAUSE CURRENTLY THE
MAKING CLOSETS MUCH MORE USABLE
BECAUSE OF THE DORMERS ARE
AS WELL BECAUSE CURRENTLY THE
SLOPED CEILINGS IN THOSE
BECAUSE OF THE DORMERS ARE
BEDROOMS AND IT WAS WE DO HAVE
SLOPED CEILINGS IN THOSE
I BELIEVE IT'S FIVE TEN AT THE
BEDROOMS AND IT WAS WE DO HAVE
CORNER THE EVE BUT IT'S STILL
I BELIEVE IT'S FIVE TEN AT THE
THE MAJORITY OF THE BEDROOMS
CORNER THE EVE BUT IT'S STILL
SLANTED IN THE CLOSETS ARE
THE MAJORITY OF THE BEDROOMS
REALLY TINY.
SLANTED IN THE CLOSETS ARE
UM SO THE THE DORMER ON WHAT
REALLY TINY.
JUST CALLED THE LEFT SIDE
UM SO THE THE DORMER ON WHAT
OF THE PAGE WE CALL THE NORTH
JUST CALLED THE LEFT SIDE
SIDE OF THE HOUSE.
OF THE PAGE WE CALL THE NORTH
THE ADDITION OF THAT DORMER IS
SIDE OF THE HOUSE.
FLUSH WITH THE EXISTING WARMER
THE ADDITION OF THAT DORMER IS
BECAUSE OF THE HEAD CLEARANCE
FLUSH WITH THE EXISTING WARMER
THAT IS REQUIRED ON THE STAIR
BECAUSE OF THE HEAD CLEARANCE
AND THAT GIVES US A LITTLE BIT
THAT IS REQUIRED ON THE STAIR
OF THE CAVITY SPACE TO DEAL
AND THAT GIVES US A LITTLE BIT
WITH THE PLUMBING ON THE
OF THE CAVITY SPACE TO DEAL
INTERIOR BUT ON THE REAR ON THE
WITH THE PLUMBING ON THE
DRIVEWAY SIDE OF THE HOUSE THE
INTERIOR BUT ON THE REAR ON THE
THE ADDITION I'M TWO IS INSET
DRIVEWAY SIDE OF THE HOUSE THE
FROM THE DORMER QUITE A BIT.
THE ADDITION I'M TWO IS INSET
THE THERE IS A PICTURE SORT
FROM THE DORMER QUITE A BIT.
OF A PICTURE OF THAT REAR DOOR
THE THERE IS A PICTURE SORT
IN THE PACKET ON THE PAGE 002
OF A PICTURE OF THAT REAR DOOR
WITH THE EXTERIOR VIEWS IT'S
IN THE PACKET ON THE PAGE 002
THE SECOND IMAGE FROM THE LEFT
WITH THE EXTERIOR VIEWS IT'S
IT'S THREE OR THREE IT IS WOOD,
THE SECOND IMAGE FROM THE LEFT
IT HAS A CROSS AND I DON'T
IT'S THREE OR THREE IT IS WOOD,
BELIEVE THAT EXISTS AN ORIGINAL
IT HAS A CROSS AND I DON'T
DOOR BUT WE CAN VERIFY WHETHER
BELIEVE THAT EXISTS AN ORIGINAL
OR NOT IT IS WHICH ZERO ZERO
DOOR BUT WE CAN VERIFY WHETHER
TWO IT'S PROBABLY PAGE TWO.
OR NOT IT IS WHICH ZERO ZERO
IT'S BASED ON THE PDF SECOND
TWO IT'S PROBABLY PAGE TWO.
IMAGE FROM THE LEFT IT'S JUST
IT'S BASED ON THE PDF SECOND
BEHIND THE GENTLEMAN STANDING.
IMAGE FROM THE LEFT IT'S JUST
AND WHY IS IT I MEAN I CAN SEE
BEHIND THE GENTLEMAN STANDING.
ON THE DRAWINGS IT'S BEING
AND WHY IS IT I MEAN I CAN SEE
FILLED IN FOR THE KITCHEN.
ON THE DRAWINGS IT'S BEING
YES.
FILLED IN FOR THE KITCHEN.
YEAH.
YES.
IT'S JUST TO MAKE THAT KITCHEN
YEAH.
LARGER SIZE AND USABLE.
IT'S JUST TO MAKE THAT KITCHEN
THERE'S A WINDOW THAT WE ARE
LARGER SIZE AND USABLE.
TRYING TO MAINTAIN THAT'S ON
THERE'S A WINDOW THAT WE ARE
THE DRIVEWAY SIDE AS WELL THAT
TRYING TO MAINTAIN THAT'S ON
WE'LL HAVE TO FINICAL SOME
THE DRIVEWAY SIDE AS WELL THAT
COUNTER AROUND BUT WE'RE TRYING
WE'LL HAVE TO FINICAL SOME
TO TO MAINTAIN AS MUCH AS
COUNTER AROUND BUT WE'RE TRYING
POSSIBLE AND STILL MAKE KEEP
TO TO MAINTAIN AS MUCH AS
THE PROVIDED SEATING COUNTER
POSSIBLE AND STILL MAKE KEEP
SHEETING WITHIN THAT KITCHEN
THE PROVIDED SEATING COUNTER
SPACE BUT ALSO USABLE SPACE
SHEETING WITHIN THAT KITCHEN
BECAUSE IT'LL BE FOR TENANTS.
SPACE BUT ALSO USABLE SPACE
WE WANTED TO UTILIZE A COUPLE
BECAUSE IT'LL BE FOR TENANTS.
OF REFRIGERATORS.
WE WANTED TO UTILIZE A COUPLE
WE MIGHT GO TO ONE LARGE
OF REFRIGERATORS.
REFRIGERATOR BUT THEN THAT
WE MIGHT GO TO ONE LARGE
WOULD GIVE US A LITTLE BIT MORE
REFRIGERATOR BUT THEN THAT
COUNTER SPACE BECAUSE THE
WOULD GIVE US A LITTLE BIT MORE
AWKWARDNESS OF THE KITCHEN
COUNTER SPACE BECAUSE THE
LAYOUT AND WE CAN I THINK IT
AWKWARDNESS OF THE KITCHEN
PROBABLY FELL OFF INITIALLY BUT
LAYOUT AND WE CAN I THINK IT
WE CAN MAINTAIN THE TRIM AROUND
PROBABLY FELL OFF INITIALLY BUT
THAT DOOR IN THE REAR AND FILL
WE CAN MAINTAIN THE TRIM AROUND
THE SIDING IF THAT'S PREVERT
THAT DOOR IN THE REAR AND FILL
JUST PREFER JUST TO MAINTAIN
THE SIDING IF THAT'S PREVERT
THE SEMBLANCE AT THE OPENING
JUST PREFER JUST TO MAINTAIN
WAS THERE
ONE THING I SHOULD
MENTION IN TERMS OF THE AIDO
BECAUSE THE STRUCTURE IS
NONCONTRIBUTING WE DO SEE IT AS
AN OPPORTUNITY FOR AN ACCESSORY
DWELLING UNIT.
WE WANTED TO GIVE A LITTLE BIT
OF AN EXTRA SPACE WITHIN THAT
FOR A LOFT SPACE SO WE WE DID
RAISE THE ROOF A LITTLE BIT TO
HAVE SOME STANDING ROOM UP IN
THE LOFT AND BE ABLE TO
TRAVERSE STAIRS UP INTO THE
LOFT SPACE.
WE THINK IT IMPROVES THE
OVERALL LOOK OF THE GARAGE
INSTEAD OF JUST HAVING A PLAIN
QUMU NONCONTRIBUTING STRUCTURE
BACK THERE AND WE ARE PROPOSING
TO THE ENTIRE GARAGE AND
SEMIOTICIAN SIDING AND SO THIS
IS GOING THROUGH ZONING.
YES ALSO YEAH.
AND THE MAJORITY OF THE ZONING
FOR THIS IS IN REGARDS TO THE
A2 THERE'S A SMALL PORTION
OF THE ADDITION THAT IS OVER
THE REAR YARD SET BACK IT'S
ABOUT 20 INCHES I BUT THE THE
A2 IS TAKING UP MORE THAN THE
ALLOWABLE SPACE IN THE REAR
YARD.
WE KNOW WE ARE UNDER THE
PERCENTAGE SO THERE'S THIRTY
FIVE PERCENT COVERAGE
ALLOWABLE.
WE ARE UNDER THAT EVEN WITH THE
ADDITIONS IT'S BECAUSE OF THE
POSITION OF A2 BECAUSE IT'S TO
THE PROPERTY ON ONE SIDE I
DON'T KNOW SIX OR SOMETHING ON
THE OTHER END IT'S CONVERTING
BECAUSE AGAIN WE'RE ON A
NONCONFORMING LOT.
IT'S CONVERTING NON HABITABLE
SPACE TO HABITABLE SPACE SO WE
HAVE TO REQUEST VARIANCES OVER
.
THANKS FOR THAT.
WHAT WHAT IS THE REAR YARD
BEING USED FOR NOW LIKE THE
AREA THAT THE ADDITION IS GOING
TO BE?
THERE IS A SMALL PATIO SPACE
BACK IN THAT CORNER WHERE THE
ADDITION IS PROPOSED TO BE
LOCATED.
THERE'S A PICNIC TABLE BACK
THERE CURRENTLY I DON'T KNOW
HOW OFTEN IT WAS USED.
I'M SURE IT WAS USED.
WE ARE AS WAS NOTED WE ARE
PROPOSING TO WE DID M.A WE HAD
AN INITIAL PLAN THAT WE
ACTUALLY RECONFIGURED AND MADE
THE ADDITIONS A LITTLE BIT
SMALLER TO INCREASE THE AMOUNT
OF THE REAR YARD SPACE.
BUT BECAUSE IT'S REALLY IS A
REALLY ODD SHAPED LOT WE ARE
REALLY COMPACT.
WE RECOGNIZE THAT BUT I THINK
THE ADDITION IS A REALLY
MINIMAL IMPACT IN THE AIDOO IS
THE EXISTING GARAGE IS TAKING
UP QUITE A YARD SPACE.
I THINK THE PREFERENCE IS TO
NOT DO THAT TO MAKE SURE THAT
IT STILL HAS ITS OWN PRIVACY.
SO AS MR THAT THERE IS NO
THERE'S ONE WINDOW I THINK ON
THAT SIDE THE REAR YARD THAT'S
JUST FOR THE BATHROOM.
THERE'S NO WINDOW BUT WE'D LIKE
TO PUT SOME PLANTINGS ALONG THE
SIDE OF THAT EIGHTY SO THAT IF
THERE IS IF THE REAR IS USED AS
A SPACE THAT IT DOESN'T DISTURB
THE OCCUPANTS OF THE VERY GOOD
ANYTHING ELSE ANY OTHER
QUESTIONS FOR THE APPLICANT?
OK, THANK YOU.
WE WILL MOVE ON TO THE PUBLIC
HEARING ONE MOMENT PLEASE.
OK I
WILL OPEN THE PUBLIC
HEARING FOR THIS ITEM.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES AT THIS
APPLICATION AT FIVE TWENTY SIX
TODAY.
SO HIT STAR NINE ON YOUR PHONE
THERE IS NO ONE PRESENT.
VERY GOOD.
OK, SO CLOSE THE PUBLIC HEARING
AND I'LL ASK IF ANY
COMMISSIONER WOULD LIKE TO MAKE
A MOTION.
OK COMMISSIONER FORTNEY I MOVE
THAT THE COMMISSION ISSUE A
CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS
FOR THE APPLICATION AT FIVE TO
SIX DETROIT STREET A
CONTRIBUTING PROPERTY IN THE
OLD FOURTH QUARTER HISTORIC
DISTRICT TO ADD TO THE HOUSE
ONE HUNDRED AND EIGHTY FIVE
SQUARE FOOT AND 135 SQUARE FOOT
REAR ADDITIONS A COMPOSITE
PRIVATE PRIVACY FENCE AND A
CONDENSER INFILL A HISTORIC
REAR DOOR OPENING AND HAD FOUR
SKYLIGHTS ALSO TO CONVERT THE
NONCONTRIBUTING GARAGE INTO AN
ACCESSORY DRILLING UNIT AND
INSTALL A PATIO AS PROPOSED.
THE WORK IS COMPATIBLE IN
EXTERIOR DESIGN ARRANGEMENT
TEXTURE MATERIAL IN
RELATIONSHIP TO THE REST OF THE
BUILDING IN THE SURROUNDING
AREA AND MEETS THE SECRETARY
OF THE INTERIOR STANDARDS FOR
REHABILITATION AND GUIDELINES
REHABILITATING HISTORIC
BUILDINGS IN PARTICULAR
STANDARDS TWO, FIVE, NINE AND
TEN AND THE GUIDELINES FOR
BUILDING SITE ADDITIONS, ROOFS
AND WINDOWS AS WELL AS THE ANN
ARBOR HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES FOR ALL EDITIONS,
RESIDENTIAL EDITIONS, LANDSCAPE
AND FEATURES ROOFS, DOORS AND
MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT.
ANYONE SECONDING THAT SUPPORT?
OK, THAT WAS MOVED BY
COMMISSIONER FORD AND SECONDED
BY COMMISSIONER HANNU AND NOW
WE'LL HAVE SOME DISCUSSION ON
THE MOTION TO START.
OK, THANK YOU.
SO YES I GUESS I'M HAVING I I I
DEFINITELY APPRECIATE YOU KNOW
THE SITE IS REALLY TIGHT AND
THE CREATIVE KIND OF REUSING
OF THE GARAGE TO PROVIDE THAT
ADDITIONAL SPACE.
BUT JUST LIKE THE ONLY REAL
ISSUE I HAVE IS KIND OF SIMILAR
TO THE ISSUE I HAVE WITH THE
LAST CASE AND IT'S KIND OF LIKE
LOSING THAT MEAN REPLAN AT THE
REAR ELEVATION BY THIS
EXTENSION OF THE OF THESE TWO
NON HISTORIC AGE DORMERS.
SO YEAH, I MEAN THAT'S MY ONLY
ISSUE I GUESS WITH THIS RATHER
AND ONLY AT THE SECOND STORY
NOT THE GROUND FLOOR EDITION.
YES, YEAH.
NOT NOT THE KIND OF FILLING IN
THE JUST THAT POCKET THE MAIN
KIND OF ROOFLINE.
YEAH.
TWO STORY ONE OR THE SECONDARY
ASPECT OF IT.
YEAH YEAH.
OK DOES ANYONE WANT TO COMMENT
ON THAT.
I SO I SEE WHERE YOU'RE COMING
FROM COMMISSIONER ROSS IT GETS
A LITTLE SWALLOWED UP.
YEAH IT ALMOST GETS SWALLOWED
UP AND THEN SPIT OUT BECAUSE
SWALLOWED UP BY THEN THAT PUT A
TOP MERIEM EMERGES YES AND IT
IS LIKE NOT IDEAL YEAH IT'S
ONCE AGAIN PUSHING PUSHING THAT
ENVELOPE IN MY OPINION.
SO WHAT ARE WE LOSING WHEN
WE'RE LOSING BECAUSE OF THAT
THERE'S NOT ANY WINDOWS THAT
WE'RE LOSING.
IT'S JUST KIND OF THAT HISTORIC
WHAT IS IT?
IT'S REALLY THE END GABLE.
I MEAN RIGHT.
IT'S LIKE IF THE DORMERS ARE
JUST EXTENDED THAT SEEMS OK TO
ME BUT IT'S THE FACT THAT THE
DOORS ARE EXTENDED AND THEN THE
END.
GABAL IS ALMOST ENTIRELY
SWALLOWED UP THAT REALLY YOU
LOSE WHATEVER WAS GOING ON IN
THE BACK OF THE HOUSE.
RIGHT.
BUT IN ORDER FOR THAT AND GABAL
TO BE PRESERVED IT WOULD MAKE
WHATEVER WOULD BE PAST THAT AND
GABAL TOTALLY USELESS BECAUSE
THE NGABO IS VERY STEEP AND
IT'S JUST A ONE AND A HALF
STORE YOU WOULD HAVE TO MAKE IT
WORSE BY EXTENDING WELL THE
ONLY OTHER OPTION WOULD BE IT
WOULD BE NOT BUMPING IT AT ALL
AND EXTENDING THE DORMERS ALL
THE WAY BACK WHICH WOULD BE
WORSE WHICH I UNDERSTAND THE
THE HEAD HEIGHT.
YEAH.
AND THE REASON BEHIND.
RIGHT RIGHT.
RIGHT YEAH.
SO LOOK CAN WE LOOK AT A SECOND
FLOOR A FLOOR PLAN TO SEE
BECAUSE YOU KNOW IT'S JUST LIKE
A FEW FEET IT'S BARELY ANYTHING
AND IT WOULD BE MUCH BETTER TO
NOT DO THAT BUT YOU WOULD
REALLY LOSE THE STAIRS HERE THE
CODE COMPLIANT STAIRS IS THE
ISSUE BECAUSE IT'S VERY WIDE
AND IT HAS TO DOUBLE BACK
BECAUSE IT WOULD JUST BE
IMPOSSIBLE TO PUT A SINGLE RUN
OF STAIRS IN THIS HOUSE SO THE
STAIRS HAS TO DOUBLE BACK.
YOU'VE GOT A VERY SMALL ODDLY
SHAPED BEDROOM ON ONE SIDE
OF IT AND THEN ON THE OTHER
SIDE OF IT YOU'VE GOT KIND OF A
DECENT SIZED BATHROOM BUT COULD
THE BATHROOM BE COULD THE
BEDROOM BE SMALLER ALMOST?
NO, IT'S IT'S A SEVEN FEET
SOMETHING TO ME.
YEAH.
YOU COULD MAYBE YOU COULD MAKE
IT SEVEN FEET WHICH WOULD BE
TOO SMALL.
IT'S ALREADY TOO SMALL AND THEN
THE STAIRS YOU CAN'T CHANGE IN
THE BATHROOM YOU COULD IT'S
IT'S FOUR I GUESS IT'S FOR THE
OH THAT'S A HALLWAY THERE OK
IT'S FOR TWO PEOPLE SO THEY'RE
TRYING TO MAKE IT A LITTLE
BIGGER AND YOU COULDN'T FIT YOU
COULDN'T FIT YOU KNOW YOU'D
HAVE TO IT HAS TO BE AT LEAST
FIVE FEET DEEP RIGHT.
AND SO IT LOOKS LIKE THE BATH
YOU KNOW THE TOILET THERE IS
TAKING UP MAYBE EVEN THREE AND
A HALF OR FOUR FEET.
SO YOU COULDN'T GET TO FIVE
FEET WITHOUT BLASTING THROUGH
THE BACK OF SO PRETTY COMPACT
NOT NOT TO SAY THAT THAT'S A
REASON TO DO IT BUT THAT'S AT
LEAST THE FLOOR PLAN IS
BREEDING AS YOU KNOW,
COMPACTORS KIND OF POSSIBLE ON
THAT SIDE.
YOU KNOW, YOU COULD YOU COULD
DO ONE BEDROOM UP THERE INSTEAD
OF TWO AND FIT IT ALL WITHOUT
HAVING TO DO THE GABLE.
YEAH, RIGHT NOW ARE MAINTAINING
THE NO BEDROOMS.
THAT SOUNDS RIGHT.
YEAH.
NO I MEAN YEAH I MEAN I
UNDERSTAND THE REASON.
YEAH
.
SO ANY ISSUES WITH LOSING THE
DOOR ON THE FIRST STORY DOES
THAT SEEM REASONABLE OR DID YOU
HAVE A COMMENT THERE.
WELL I GUESS FOLLOW UP QUESTION
TO JUST CONFIRM IS IT WERE YOU
PROPOSING TO HAVE SOME SORT
OF TO LEAVE THE TRIM INSIDE BUT
IT IS NOT CURRENTLY SHOWN TO
HAVE THE TRIM MAINTAIN BUT WE
ARE COMPLETELY FINE DOING THAT.
I THINK THAT WAS OUR INTENT AND
IT DID NOT GET NO OK.
I MEAN I I WOULD RATHER IT BE
MAINTAINED AS A THE FRAME
OF THE EXISTING AGREEMENT.
YEAH YEAH.
OK BUT OTHERS AGREE.
YEAH.
HOW MUCH OF AN I THINK IS
SINCE THE APPLICANT IS
PROPOSING IT AND I THINK THAT
WE SHOULD CAPTURE THAT AND THE
MOTION.
YEAH SO THANK YOU.
CAN WE ADD THAT TO THE MOTION
LIST
YOU CAN SEE IN THE FILM
HERE SO WE WILL CHANGE THE
MOTION.
IT'S THIS INFILL AHISTORIC WE
ARE DOOR OPENING MAINTAINING
THE EXTERIOR TRIM VERY NICE.
THANK YOU FOR THAT GOING ON AD
FOR SCOLEX.
OK SO THEN WE HAVE THE ONE
STOREY ADDITION THAT KIND
OF JUTS OUT INTO THE BACKYARD.
IT'S AWFULLY CLOSE TO THE
NONCONTRIBUTING GARAGE BUT THE
GARAGE IS NONCONTRIBUTING AND
IT'S IN ADDITION SO I SUPPOSE
THERE'S NO CONTRIBUTING
STRUCTURES BEING ENCROACHED
UPON OR LOOMED OVER.
ARE THERE ANY COMMENTS ABOUT
THE ONE STOREY ADDITION?
HEY, WHAT ABOUT THE LOTS
OF WORK PROPOSED TO THE TO THE
GARAGE ALTHOUGH THE FOOTPRINT
IS STAYING THE SAME IS IT
THOUGH?
IT'S JUST IS THE THE CLADDING
IT'S JUST BEING CLAGETT.
YEAH OK YEAH THEY SAID SO IT'LL
GROW BY THREE QUARTERS OF AN
INCH OR SOMETHING.
YEAH I'M LOOKING AT THE SOUTH
ELEVATION A THREE OH ONE I KNOW
IT YOU KNOW LOOKING AT THE
HEIGHTS IT IS
SEVERAL FEET
LOWER THE OVERALL ROOF HEIGHT
COMPARED TO THE EXISTING MAIN
STRUCTURE BUT IS IT TO OTHERS
I'M CURIOUS WHAT OTHERS FEEL
ABOUT IT IT GROWING WITH THOSE
SIDE DORMERS AND KIND
OF BECOMING MORE THAN A
SECONDARY VOLUME ON THE SIDE?
YEAH.
WHEN YOU START TO LOOK AT THE
AXON TO YEAH.
IT LOOKS REALLY BIG IN THE AXON
FOR WHATEVER REASON.
YEAH BUT THAT'S THE EXISTING
FOOTPRINT RIGHT.
YEAH I THINK IT'S JUST THAT
ADDED HEIGHT THE LOW OF THE
ROOF MAYBE TWO RIGHT THAT'S
MAKING LOOK BIG.
YEAH.
AS OPPOSED TO MAINTAINING THAT
GABLE WELL I DON'T KNOW YOU
WERE THERE HOW DID IT FEEL LIKE
WHEN YOU IMAGINED IT FROM THE
SIDEWALK.
I'M GUESSING IT FELT QUITE FAR
BACK AND WELL IT IS IT IS A
RELATIVELY DEEP DRIVEWAY.
YEAH.
IT'S A LITTLE HARD TO PICTURE
THERE.
THERE'S A TREE THERE RIGHT NOW.
RIGHT.
THAT'S GOING TO BE REMOVED.
YOU'RE GOING TO GO HOME BUT YOU
KNOW, I WAS JUST CURIOUS WHAT
OTHERS THOUGHT ABOUT THE I MEAN
MY COMMENT THERE IS I WAS
SURPRISED TO HEAR THAT IT WAS
LESS THAN THIRTY FIVE PERCENT
OF THE ALLOWABLE OF THE REAR
YARD.
IT MUST BE SOMEHOW THAT CRAZY
SHAPE OF THE REAR YARD IS ALL
TECHNICALLY REAR YARD SET BACK
AN AREA SO IT WAS I MEAN THAT
MEANS THAT THERE'S ACTUALLY
QUITE A BIT OF REAR YARD
AVAILABLE SO I WAS IT FELT LIKE
EVERYTHING WAS KIND OF TOO BIG.
BUT IF THAT NUMBER IS IS LOWER
THEN THEN THERE IS QUITE A BIT
OF REAR YARD.
IT'S JUST A WEIRD SHAPE, YOU
KNOW, IT'S JUST THE REAR YARD
IS ODDLY SHAPED AND YES, THE
HEIGHT YEAH.
I GUESS JUST LOOKING AT THIS
ELEVATION THAT YOU'RE LOOKING
AT IT SEEMS ESPECIALLY WITH THE
THE CLEVER DESIGN THAT PEDIMENT
THAT YEAH IT'S IT'S IT FEELS
COMPATIBLE.
YOU KNOW THE IN THE WAY THAT
IT'S DRAWN BUT YOU DON'T FEEL
THAT IT'S THE VOLUME IS
STARTING TO COMPETE WITH THE
THE MAIN HOUSE AND I'M TRYING
TO JUST PICTURE IT LIKE IN
PERSPECTIVE YOU KNOW FROM THE
SIDEWALK AND IT BEING YOU LIKE
AN ELEVATION DAM YOU KNOW BUT
LIKE WITH IT BEING BACK THERE.
YEAH, I THINK THAT IT WILL
COMPETE BUT IT'S ALSO VERY
COMPATIBLE JUST WITH THE
DORMERS ARE THE SAME.
YEAH.
THAT IS A CLEVER IT'S MAYBE IF
IT WASN'T COMPATIBLE THEN I
WOULD REALLY BE STICKING OUT
AND IT WOULD BE MORE OF AN
ISSUE.
IT'S STILL THREE FOOT NINE FROM
RIDGE TO RIDGE WHICH IS NOT SO
HUGE BUT IT'S MORE THAN WE
USUALLY GET.
SO YEAH RIGHT.
ALL RIGHT.
I MEAN IT'S ALLOWED TO BE I
THINK TWENTY FEET IS THE
EIGHTEEN HEIGHT AND SO YEAH.
SO WE'RE GETTING LESS THAN THAT
WHICH WE APPRECIATE FOR THIS
SITE.
ARE THERE ANY OTHER COMMENTS ON
THE AIDO.
OK WHAT ABOUT JUST ANY
MISCELLANEOUS THAT I'M MISSING
ANY ANYTHING ELSE ON THIS ONE
OR SHOULD WE GO TO A VOTE.
OK WE'RE GOING TO VOTE ALL
THOSE IN FAVOR OF THE MOTION
PLEASE SAY YES.
YES ALL THOSE OPPOSED PLEASE
SAY NO.
THE MOTION CARRIES YOUR
APPLICATION HAS BEEN APPROVED.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
YEAH TAKE CARE.
YOU YOU YOU TOO.
OK, DEEP BREATH IN MOVING.
I KNOW THIS
NEW BUSINESS
THERE'S NO NEW BUSINESS THERE'S
THERE IS GREAT DON'T WORRY I
MADE GREAT I SAID GREAT BUT I'M
AT GREAT GREAT ALL RIGHT G ONE
IS AN APPLICATION FOR HISTORIC
MERKUR OH VERY GOOD ATTRACTS
LITTLE BRONZE PLAQUES ONE OH OH
THREE WEST LIBERTY STREET.
THIS IS A VERY INTERESTING SOVS
BUT I NEED TO SHOW YOU
OH YES
THIS WAS A LOT OF BEAUTIFULLY
HANDWRITTEN.
YEAH GOT IT.
YEAH.
SO HERE IS ONE OH OH OH THREE
OH WEST LIBERTY THEY THEY THE
THE OWNERS WHO WERE NEW AT THE
TIME CAME INTO THE SCC IN 2019
THIS HOUSE HAD THE CRAZIEST
INTERIOR FLOOR PLAN YOU EVER
SEEN.
THERE WAS LIKE ONE ROOM ON THE
SIDE THAT WENT FROM FRONT TO
REAR AND THEN AN INTERIOR
BEDROOM WITH NO WINDOWS AND
THEN IT WAS IT WAS KIND OF A
CREAM COLOR BEFORE IT JUST THEY
HAD TO DO A LOT OF WORK ON THE
INTERIOR.
WE DIDN'T HAVE TO WORRY ABOUT
IT.
THEY ALSO BECAUSE THEY HAD TO
CREATE BEDROOMS THAT HAD
WINDOWS THEY NEEDED TO CASEMENT
WINDOWS ON THE LEFT SIDE ON THE
EAST SIDE OF THE HOUSE.
SO TWO ORIGINAL WINDOWS HAD TO
BE REPLACED BUT THEY DID A
GREAT JOB FINDING CASEMENT'S
THAT WERE BUILT TO MATCH AND
YADA YADA.
THEY'VE RESTORED THINGS.
THIS IS ACTUALLY A LATIN KIT
HOUSE ORDER.
YEAH.
SO YEAH, YOU STORE INFORMATION
FROM THE PROPERTY UNDER THE
CITY SHOWS IT IS BEING BUILT IN
NINETEEN EIGHTY FIVE AND
EVERYTHING THAT THEY FOUND
ALIGNS WITH THAT.
THE NAME OF THE FIRST OWNER
OF THE BUILDING APPEARS TO BE
HORACE T PROPHY OLD WHO OWNED
IT FROM 1880 UNTIL 1958.
LET'S SEE MR PARAFIELD WAS A
LONG TIME INSTRUCTOR IN
WOODWORKING AND PATTERN MAKING
AT THE UNIVERSITY WHO LEFT FOR
FORT WAYNE, INDIANA IN 1936 AND
HE WAS THE SECRETARY
OF WASHTENAW COUNTY PROHIBITION
COMMITTEE IN 1895.
VERY INTERESTING.
SO HERE'S THE MODEL THAT THE
THE OAKLAND BASED ON HOMES IN
OAKLAND, CALIFORNIA.
OK, NOT EXACTLY THE SAME.
THESE CAT HOUSES YOU CAN MAKE
LOTS OF MODIFICATIONS.
THE WINDOWS ARE SIMPLER ON THIS
ONE.
THE FOUNDATION IS NOT THE SAME.
IT'S STUCCO BUT BUT THE FORM
THE SHAPE THE FOOTPRINT IS ALL
THE SAME.
SO IT WAS VERY COOL THAT THE
APPLICANT INCLUDED THAT THERE'S
MORE INFORMATION IN THE PACKET
BUT I DO NEED TO BRING ONE
THING TO YOUR ATTENTION AND
THAT IS UNFORTUNATELY THE HOME
HAS ALUMINUM SIDING.
THIS IS LEFT OVER FROM PROBABLY
THE FIFTIES THEY'VE SUCH A
METICULOUS JOB OF EVERYTHING
BUT IT'S STILL THERE AND I AM
COMPELLED TO POINT IT OUT TO
YOU.
I DON'T REALLY THINK THAT I
DON'T KNOW I KIND OF FEEL LIKE
RESTORING ALL OF A HOUSE BUT
NOT TO YOU KNOW, THE ALUMINUM
SIDING MIGHT BE OK.
I'M GLAD THEY SPENT MONEY ON
THINGS LIKE WINDOWS BUT BUT YOU
KNOW, IT'S UP TO YOU GUYS
WHETHER OR NOT THAT IS
APPROPRIATE FOR A I THINK THAT
EVERY OTHER INCH OF IT IS
COMPLETELY APPROPRIATE AND THIS
ISN'T A PRESERVATION
ACKNOWLEDGMENT.
THIS IS A HISTORIC PLACE.
RIGHT?
IT'S A HISTORIC PARK.
YES.
WE DO HAVE CRITERIA LIKE THE
WORK THAT'S BEEN DONE HAS TO
MEET THE SECRETARY AND YOUR
STANDARDS.
SO IF THEY HAD SOME BIG CRAZY
VISION ON THE BACK THAT YOU
KNOW, MIGHT NOT FLY THEM
PROBLEMS, WE WOULDN'T LET THEM
PUT IT OUT OF SIGHT AND SEE
THAT'S THE RUB AND IT WAS MAN
SO ARE YOU SAYING THEY
BASICALLY IF THE ALUMINUM
SIDING HAS COMPLETELY DESTROYED
THE HISTORIC CHARACTER OF THE
HOUSE, THEN IT SHOULDN'T GET A
PLAQUE.
BUT IF THE ALUMINUM SIDING HAS
NOT COMPLETELY DESTROYED THE
HISTORIC CHARACTER, THEN A
PLAQUE IS OK.
THAT'S NOT WHAT I'M SAYING BUT
IT'S AN INTERESTING IDEA.
WELL, I'M TRYING TO FIGURE OUT
HOW TO WRITE LIKE OK NOW I KNOW
THERE'S ALUMINUM SIDING.
WHAT DO I DO WITH THAT?
YEAH, EXACTLY.
EXACTLY THE PART OF THE
QUESTION SO LIKE IN TERMS OF SO
IT'S JUST LIKE WE'RE LOOKING AT
NOW FOR RICHER CRITERIA IS IT
IMPORTANT BECAUSE IT'S
ASSOCIATED WITH THIS FIRST
OWNER OR IS IT LIKE IMPORTANT
BECAUSE IT'S LIKE A GOOD
EXAMPLE OF A LATIN CAT HOUSE OR
WHAT'S THE WE'RE NOT EVEN THAT
SPECIFIC WITH OUR PLAX, OK?
WE'RE NOT REALLY LOOKING AT
NATIONAL REGISTRY STANDARDS.
I'M GOING TO PULL THEM HERE.
I'M MORDOVIA FOR YOU BECAUSE I
GUESS IF YOU'RE PULLING IT UP,
BILL, I MEAN THIS HOUSE
ESPECIALLY WHEN YOU SHOWED US
THAT HISTORIC CLIPPING, IT'S
STILL EVEN LIKE ASIDE FROM THE
FACT THAT IT DOES HAVE ALUMINUM
SIDING, IT'S STILL REALLY TO ME
READS IT.
LET ME KNOW WHEN I SAW IT I WAS
LIKE WOW, IT'S THE SAME YEAH.
SO YEAH.
SO TO ME
IT'S NOT THE INTEGRITY
ISN'T SO DAMAGED BY THIS
SIGHTING YOU CAN'T TELL WHAT'S
GOING ON OUT OF YOU.
YEAH, SO THE CRITERIA ARE THAT
THE BUILDING MUST BE 50 YEARS
OLD.
IT MUST HAVE BEEN MAINTAINED
OVER TIME IN ITS ORIGINAL
CONDITION OR HAVE UNDERGONE
HISTORICALLY APPROPRIATE
RESTORATION OR REHABILITATION
MAY NOT HAVE HISTORICALLY
INAPPROPRIATE FEATURES AND OR
REPAIRS PRINCIPAL FACADES MUST
MAINTAIN INTEGRITY OF FOREIGN
MATERIALS AND ARCHITECTURAL
FEATURES IF ONE OR MORE OF THE
CRITERIA CANNOT BE MET, STAFF
THE COMMISSION WILL CONSIDER
WHETHER THE BUILDING HAS
SPECIAL HISTORICAL OR
ARCHITECTURAL SIGNIFICANCE ON A
CASE BY CASE BASIS.
WELL LOOK THAT'S GOOD.
THANKS FOR READING THOSE.
YEAH.
SO WHAT IS WITH THIS OTHER
LIST?
THE PROPERTY MUST MEET ONE
OF THE FOLLOWING FOUR CRITERIA
.
YEAH.
WHAT'S UP WITH YEAH THIS IS ONE
OF THOSE STATISTICS SO IT'S
SIDE HISTORIC DISTRICT SO WE'RE
GOOD SO I MEAN LET'S GO THROUGH
THOSE ONE BY ONE A FIFTY YEARS
OLD RIGHT.
WE'RE OUT THERE BE OK SO IT'S
NECESSARILY BEEN MAINTAINED
OVER TIME AND IT'S I MEAN YOU
COULD ARGUE YES BUT THEN
HISTORICALLY APPROPRIATE THAT'S
AN ORDER.
SO THE BUILDING MUST HAVE BEEN
MAINTAINED OVER TIME AND ITS
ORIGINAL CONDITION I MEAN
POSSIBLY WE DON'T KNOW WHAT'S
UNDERNEATH THE ALUMINUM I
SUPPOSE.
RIGHT.
THE I GUESS YOU COULD CONSIDER
ALUMINUM TO BE PART OF A
REHABILITATION BUT BUT NOT
HISTORICALLY APPROPRIATE
EXACTLY.
RIGHT.
SO SO THAT ONE'S KIND
OF QUESTIONABLE HISTORICALLY
INAPPROPRIATE FEATURES
ENCLOSURES OR REPAIR THAT THAT
ALSO SEEMS KIND OF QUESTIONABLE
.
THE BUILDING THE FACADES
VISIBLE MUST MAINTAIN INTEGRITY
OF FORM.
YES.
MATERIALS NO ARCHITECTURAL
FEATURES.
YES.
AND THEN THERE'S AN OUT IF ONE
OR MORE OF THE CRITERIA CANNOT
BE MET STAFF AND THE COMMISSION
WILL CONSIDER WHETHER THE
BUILDING HAS SPECIAL HISTORIC
OR ARCHITECTURAL SIGNIFICANCE
ON A CASE BY CASE BASIS.
AND HOW MANY ALADIN KID HOMES
DO WE HAVE IN ANN ARBOR THAT
LOOK ALMOST EXACTLY LIKE THE
ONE FROM THE CATALOG?
SO IT SEEMS LIKE THIS HAS
SPECIAL SIGNIFICANCE.
YEAH, I MEAN IF IT WAS JUST A
NORMAL GREEK REVIVAL HOUSE THAT
WE HAVE DOZENS OF THOSE AND
THIS ONE HAD ALUMINUM SIDING ON
IT, IT WOULD BE HARD TO GIVE
THIS BACK UNLESS IT WAS YOU
KNOW, SOMEBODY SOMETHING ELSE
THAT MADE A SPECIAL YEAH I
DISAGREE PRECEDENT FOR FUTURE
HELP AS WELL FOR WHAT'S THAT?
IT'S A GREAT PRESIDENT
PRECEDENT FOR FUTURE HOMES AS
WELL.
IN WHAT WAY IF THERE IS SOME
OTHER KID HOME LATER ON THIS
YEAR?
OK, THAT SOUNDS GOOD.
I MEAN I LITERALLY AS I WAS WAS
WE'RE PULLING THAT WAS LIKE
I'VE NEVER HEARD OF THAT SO I'M
LITERALLY ABOUT TO GO BACK AND
I SAW A BUNCH OTHER A LOT
OF KID HOUSES SO IT'S LIKE WELL
IT'S REALLY COOL.
SO THE LAST TIME PEOPLE GET
BACK AND IT DOESN'T PREVENT
THEM FROM MAYBE INVESTIGATING
LATER WITH SOMETHING.
YES, I KNOW.
WELL MAYBE IF WE DON'T
ENCOURAGE WE CAN'T HAVE IT TO
THE ALUMINUM SIDING BETTER TO
FIRE ME.
I THINK THAT PARTICULAR TO THIS
DESIGN OF THIS HOUSE LIKE THE
SIDING ISN'T THE FIRST THING
YOU SEE AS WELL.
YOU KNOW, LIKE THAT THAT PORCH
AND THE THE DORMER.
YEAH.
WHICH HAS THE SIDING BUT IT'S
MORE LIKE THE MASSING OF THE
PORCH AND THE DORMER IS REALLY
PRIMARY.
SO ANYWAY WE WHAT DO WE DO WE
JUST NEED TO VOTE.
SOMEBODY HAS TO MAKE A MOTION
TO LET'S HAVE A MOTION TO
APPROVE THIS PLAQUE.
DO WE NEED TO KNOW MORE ABOUT
IT OR WE'RE GOOD THIS IS IT.
THIS IS IT.
OK I COULD BE LIKE OK I MOVE
THAT THE HISTORIC DISTRICT
COMMISSION APPROVED THE
PROPOSED FOUR ONE ZERO ZERO
THREE WEST LIBERTY AND THE
HISTORIC MARKER APPLICATION FOR
PROPERTY.
THANKS I GOT VERY GOOD AND
WE'VE GOT A SECOND.
SO THAT'S MOVED BY COMMISSIONER
ROSS AND SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER FORTNER.
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR PLEASE SAY
YES.
YES, YES, YES.
ALL OPPOSED SAY NO.
THE MOTION CARRIES THE PLAQUE
WILL BE PRESENTED RIGHT.
IT'S VERY EXCITING.
THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANY NEW BUSINESS IS
THAT ANY OTHER NEW HOUSES ARE
VERY GOOD.
THANK YOU FOR THAT.
I DON'T BELIEVE THAT YOU HAVE
ANY MINUTES IN YOUR BACK RIGHT
.
THE MINUTES WERE NOT IN THE
PACKAGE SO WE WILL WAIT TILL
NOVEMBER.
YEAH WE HAVE A NOVEMBER MEETING
THIS YEAR.
OK FOR THE SEPTEMBER THEN IT'S
AND I'M WONDERING WHERE TO PART
I HEAR IS THERE ANYTHING A
COMMISSIONER WOULD LIKE TO
SHARE WITH THE COMMISSION?
OK COMMISSIONER CONO DID YOU
HAVE SOME OK VERY GOOD.
OK NOW WE WILL MOVE ON TO
ASSIGNMENT'S WE'RE LOOKING FOR
VOLUNTEERS FOR THE REVIEW
COMMITTEE FOR THE THURSDAY AND
LET'S LOOK AT THE AGENDA.
WHAT DID IT SAY MONDAY AT NOON
ON MONDAY, NOVEMBER SIX AT NOON
NOVEMBER 6TH LET'S SEE
I SHOULD
BE AVAILABLE.
I CAN DO IT AS WELL.
OK, DAVID.
YES.
THANK YOU.
VERY GOOD.
OK, MOVING ON TO REPORTS FROM
STAFF ITEM K ISSACHAR BOTH
OF YOU SENT US A BRIEFLY
MENTIONED IT EARLIER.
HERE'S THE MATERIALS SAYING
WHAT SHOULD WE DO WITH THAT
EXTRA TO READ IT?
YEAH OK.
YEAH BUT YOU MENTIONED EARLIER
BASICALLY IT'S COMING UP TO
SPEED WITH WHAT WE'VE GENERALLY
BEEN DOING WITH THE
PRESERVATION BRIEF, OK, THAT
THERE'S A LINK TO BECAUSE THEY
HAVE THE SECRETARY INTERIOR HAS
UPDATED SOME OF THEIR STANDARDS
FOR USING ALTERNATE MATERIALS
AND SOME OF IT IS INTERESTING
READING.
YEAH.
AND APPLICABLE YOU KNOW TO WHAT
WE DID HERE.
I WAS BEING A LITTLE OFF THE
HALF WHEN I SAID WE'RE DOING
EVERYTHING RIGHT ALREADY.
WE'LL READ IT IMPROVE.
ABSOLUTELY.
I SAW SOMETHING I DON'T KNOW
WHAT IT WAS THIS AN EMAIL FROM
THE CITY THAT MENTIONED AN OLD
FOURTH WARD OF RECLASSIFYING OR
YES ON THE OLD FOURTH WARD
KICKOFF MEETING WAS TUESDAY
NIGHT.
HOW DID THAT GO?
IT WAS GREAT.
IT WAS AT THE SEMIANNUAL
NEIGHBORHOOD ASSOCIATION
MEETING BEFORE THERE WERE
FIFTEEN PEOPLE ACTUALLY THERE
WERE MORE THAN THAT IN
ATTENDANCE.
ALAN HIGGINS FROM THE STATE
HISTORIC PRESERVATION OFFICE
WAS PRESENT AND OUR PROJECT
CONSULTANT SARAH REYES FROM
CHRONICAL HERITAGE FORMERLY
COMMONWEALTH OUT OF DEXTER WAS
THERE AND SHE DID A GREAT JOB
AND THAT WHO'S DOING THE WHAT
IS THE IT'S THE IT'S THE
RESURVEY FOURTH WARD HISTORIC
DISTRICT.
IT HAS YOU KNOW, TWO THIRDS
OF THE PROPERTIES IN THE OLD
FOURTH WARD WERE NEVER SURVEYED
BACK IN THE 80S.
OK, SO WE HAVE LIKE NOTHING TO
GO OFF EVERY TIME ONE OF THOSE
HOUSES COMES UP.
I HAVE TO RESEARCH INTO THE
HISTORY.
YEAH, SO THEY'RE GOING TO FILL
SOME OF THOSE GAPS.
SOUNDS GREAT.
YEP.
THEY'LL BE SURVEYING IN
MID-NOVEMBER MID NOVEMBER LIKE
TAKING PICTURES OK.
EVERY HOUSE THEY'LL PUT LEAVES
OFF THE DRAMATIC BUILDING BUT
THAT'S GRAYBEAL.
THANK YOU FOR THAT.
I HAVE A QUICK QUESTION.
YES, ETC. BUT SO WILL THE
CONSULTANT BE LOOKING AT
POTENTIALLY EXTENDING THE
PERIOD OF SIGNIFICANCE OR IS IT
MORE NO, IT'S JUST A
RECONNAISSANCE LEVEL RESURVEY
YEAH.
OH OKAY.
YEAH HELPFUL.
IT SOUNDS GOOD BECAUSE IT WAS
THE FIRST SURVEY WAS
INCOMPLETE.
IT WAS JUST KIND OF LIKE OK.
YEAH JUST SAVE THEM.
IT WAS GREAT AND YOU KNOW FOR
ITS TIME VERY GOOD.
VERY GOOD.
OK, WE'VE GOT THERE'S CURRENTLY
WE'RE AT CONCERNS
OF COMMISSIONERS SO I'M LOOKING
AROUND TO SEE IF WE HAVE ANY
AND IT DOES NOT APPEAR THAT WE
DO.
ARE THERE ANY COMMUNICATIONS
THIS MONTH?
NO.
OK, SO I NOW ADJOURN
OCTOBER TWELVE TWENTY TWENTY
THREE HGC MEETING THANK YOU